on transverse vibrations of thin, shallow elastic shells ..A.B.Won transverse vibrations of thin, shallow elastic shells .  experimental measurements of pressures and heat-transferrates over three blunt afterbodies of small fineness ratio in fullyseparated wakes are presented .  the afterbodies are generallysimilar in shape but have different stepdown heights from the endof the forebody .  tests were made by means of a new shroud technique over arange of reynolds numbers closely corresponding to typicalflight conditions at mach numbers on the order of 20, consideringmodels on the order of 5 ft. in diameter at about 120,000 ft.altitude .  stagnation temperatures on the order of 1,300 r. to  strictly speaking, the test flows correspond to prototype flowswhich would be created by a forebody consisting of a sharp orslightly blunted 54 half angle cone which turns cylindrical for ashort distance and then connects with the afterbody .  judiciouslyinterpreted, the results may be considered to have a somewhatwider applicability for approximation purposes .  the results arepresented and compared with each other in terms ofnondimensional variables based on flow conditions at the end of theforebody .  the pressure distribution along an afterbody is seen to beroughly uniform in each run .  for a given point on an afterbody,the ratio of pressure to the stagnation pressure at the forebodyend (or exit) decreases with increasing stagnation pressure orreynolds number .  the present pressures and pressure-reynoldsnumber variations (fig. 8) are compared with values obtainedfrom chapman's mach 2 or 3 base-pressure data,. qualitative andsome quantitative agreement is noted .  in the reynolds numberrange comparable to those of the present tests, chapman's exitboundary layers were considered to be laminar .  an approximatecheck of the heat-transfer rate at the forebody end in the presenttests also indicates a laminar rate .  no information was obtainedconcerning the possible transition of the free-mixing separatedboundary layer covering the wake .  an adverse pressure gradienton the cylindrical end of the forebody figs. 7(a) and 7(c) wasobserved .  heat-transfer rates are seen to be roughly uniform over anafterbody in each run, although some increase in the streamwisedirection is noted .  the afterbody nusselt number (n) varieswith the reynolds number (r evaluated at the forebody end)roughly in the manner n r where generally (fig. 13) .  heat rates on the rear faces of the afterbodies are almosttwice the values on the sides .  the heat rates on the large-stepbody are higher than those on the body of zero stepdown height .  in an addendum, it is shown that the prandtl-meyer expansionangle of the flow leaving the afterbody increases with increasingtest reynolds number, and that the corresponding local machnumber square increases linearly with reynolds number .  theeffect is to keep the local wake reynolds numbers virtuallyconstant with increasing test reynolds number while the afterbodyheat rates increase sharply .  the expansion angle on theafterbody of zero stepdown height is significantly smaller than on thestepped down bodies,. this may affect the decreased heat rates onthis body .