the bending strength of pressurized cylinders ..A.B.Wthe bending strength of pressurized cylinders .be described here is attributed to the russianinvestigator v. g. galerkin, whose original papers areinaccessible to the present writer .  his knowledgeof the method is derived from a description given ina paper by e. p. grossman .  grossman statesthat the method was given by galerkin in his treatisep. 897), and that applications to oscillation problemswere first made by v. p. lyskov .  it is pointedout by grossman that galerkin's process in applicationsto mechanics leads to the same results aslagrange's principle of virtual work, but employs aspecial co-ordinate system .  the method of galerkin belongs to the same generalclass as those of rayleigh and ritz, for it seeksto obtain an approximate solution of a differentialequation with given boundary conditions by takinga function which satisfies these conditions exactly,and proceeds to specialise the function in such amanner as to secure approximate satisfaction of thedifferential equation .  the selected function isa linear combination of n independent functions, andthe coefficients are determined by a process ofintegration .  the galerkin process can be considered from twopoints of view, (a) simply as a means for theapproximate solution of differential equations, andtreatment of problems concerning the statics anddynamics of elastic and other deformable bodies .these two aspects are treated separately in parts 1and 2 of the paper respectively, and will nowbe briefly discussed .which satisfies the boundary conditions, inthe differential equation be .  since the result should bezero, is the error in the differential equation .then the galerkin process consists in choosing the ncoefficients in the function in such a manner thatn distinct weighted means of the error, taken throughouta certain range of representation, shall allbe zero .as a generalised force, and the multipliers usedto weight the errors are the virtual displacementscorresponding to increments of each of the generalisedco-ordinates in turn .  thus the vanishing of theweighted mean is here interpreted as the vanishingof the virtual work in the appropriate displacement .  the degree of accuracy attaindd can be increasedindefinitely by increasing the number ofindependent functions employed, but this entails a greatincrease of labour .  however, when the functionsare well chosen, an excellent approximation can beobtained by the use of a very small number, as issufficiently shown by the examples included in this paper .