wind tunnel measurements of aerodynamic damping derivativesof a launch vehicle vibrating in free-free bendingmodes at mach numbers from 0. 70 to 2. 87 and comparisonswith theory ..Ahanson,p.w. and doggett,r.v..Bnasa tn.d1391, 1962..Wwind tunnel measurements of aerodynamic damping derivativesof a launch vehicle vibrating in free-free bendingmodes at mach numbers from 0. 70 to 2. 87 and comparisonswith theory .  the aerodynamic damping of aflexibly mounted aeroelastic modelwith a blunted conical nose and acylindrical afterbody was measured atmach numbers from 0.70 to 1.20 atseveral levels of dynamic pressureand two weight conditions and atmach numbers from 1.76 to 2.87 at oneweight condition .  the first twofree-free flexible modes of vibrationwere investigated .  also investigatedat mach numbers from 0.9 to 1.2was the aerodynamic damping in thefirst free-free modes of a modelwhich had a /hammerhead/ nose (thebase diameter of the blunted conewas greater than the diameter of theafterbody which necessitated areflex angle downstream from the conebase) .  two basically different methods,the /electrical power-input/ andthe /decaying oscillations/ methods wereused to determine the dampingand frequencies .  the experimentallydetermined values are compared withsome applicable theories .  the resultsof the investigation indicatethat the aerodynamic damping in theelastic modes of vibration was smallfor all configurations tested .  themaximum aerodynamic damping measuredin the first mode was on the order ofdamping .  the aerodynamic damping wasfound to be even less for vibrationmodes higher than the first .reduced-frequency effects were found to benegligible for the range investigated .agreement of calculatedaerodynamic damping derivatives with theexperimental results was not good .generally, the experimentally determinedderivatives were larger thanthose predicted by the various theoriesused .  the bond-packard theoryappeared to give the best agreement forthe first free-free vibrationmode but gave the worst agreement for thesecond mode .  measurementsmade on the configuration that had ahammerhead nose indicated smallnegative aerodynamic damping in the machnumber range from 0.95 to 1.00 .aerodynamic stiffness effects were foundto be small and within theexperimental scatter .  (wind-on frequencydetermination was accurateonly to approximately 1 percent .)