ignition and combustion in a laminar mixing zone ..Amarble,f. and adamson,t.c..Bjet prop. 24, 1954, 85..Wignition and combustion in a laminar mixing zone .  the analytic investigation of laminar combustionprocesses which are essentially two- or three-dimensionalpresent some mathematical difficulties .  there are,however, several examples of two-dimensional flamepropagation which involve transverse velocities that are small incomparison with that in the principal direction of flow .such examples occur in the problem of flame quenchingby a cool surface, flame stabilization on a heated flat plate,combustion in laminar mixing zones, etc .  in these casesthe problem may be simplified by employing what isknown in fluid mechanics as the boundary-layerapproximation, since it was applied first by prandtl in histreatment of the viscous flow over a flat plate .  physically itconsists in recognizing that if the transverse velocity issmall, the variations of flow properties along the directionof main flow are small in comparison with those in adirection normal to the main flow .  the analyticdescription of the problem simplifies accordingly .  the presentanalysis considers the ignition and combustion in thelaminar mixing zone between two parallel moving gasstreams .  one stream consists of a cool combustiblemixture, the second is hot combustion products .  the twostreams come into contact at a given point and a laminarmixing process follows in which the velocity distribution ismodified by viscosity, and the temperature andcomposition distributions by conduction, diffusion, and chemicalreaction .  the decomposition of the combustible streamis assumed to follow first-order reaction kinetics withtemperature dependence according to the arrhenius law .for a given initial velocity, composition, and temperaturedistribution, the questions to be answered are ..  (1) doesthe combustible material ignite,. and (2) how fardownstream of the initial contact point does the flame appearand what is the detailed process of development .  sincethe hot stream is of infinite extent, it is found that ignitionalways takes place at some point of the stream .  however,when the temperature of the hot stream drops below acertain value, the distance required for ignition increasesso enormously that it essentially does not occur in aphysical apparatus of finite dimension .  the completedevelopment of the laminar flame front is computed usingan approximation similar to the integral techniqueintroduced by von karman into boundary layer theory .