dynamics of a dissociating gas ..Alighthill,m.j..Bj.fluid mech. 2, 1957, 1..Wdynamics of a dissociating gas .  this is a lucid introduction to the effects of dissociationin gas dynamics .  the problem in view is that of air flowpast a bluff body at speeds somewhat above 2 km sec .thermodynamic equilibrium is assumed,. theories of nearequilibrium for transport properties and of largedepartures from equilibrium being promised in parts 2 and 3 .  following a survey of the equilibrium statisticalthermodynamics of a pure dissociating diatomic gas, anew model is introduced .  this /ideal dissociating gas/ ischaracterized by only three constants, the characteristictemperature, density and internal energy for dissociation .physically, it may be regarded as having its vibrationalmodes always just half excited (so that at lowtemperatures the ratio of specific heats approaches 4 3 ratherthen 7 5) .  thermodynamic properties of the ideal gasare derived, and the oblique shock wave relationsdeduced in the /strong-shock/ approximation (including anelegant relation between the principal curvatures of anybow shock and the subsequent vorticity) .  useful relationsare given for the isentropic changes that take place alongstreamlines between shocks .  various of these results are applied to the problemtypified by a sphere flying at high mach number .  thenewtonian impact theory and its empirical modificationare dismissed as lacking theoretical basis, in favor of thelimit for large values of both mach number and densityratio across the shock .  it is suggested that the zerosurface pressure sometimes predicted by the latter theorycorresponds to separation not of the flow but of the shockwave from the surface .  an estimate is given for thesubsequent shape of the shock .  finally, anotherapproximation is applied to the region near the stagnationstreamline .  the fluid is assumed incompressible, but rotationalin accord with the shock relations,. and it is shown that aspherical shock corresponds to a concentric spherical body .the resulting surface pressure is within 1 per cent of thatpredicted by freeman's second approximation based onthe newtonian-plus-centrifugal solution (same j. 1 (1956),