heat transfer to bodies traveling at high speed in the upperatmosphere ..Ajackson r. stalder and david jukoff.Breport 944.Wheat transfer to bodies traveling at high speed in the upperatmosphere .a general method has been developed, using the methods of kinetictheory, whereby the surface temperatures of bodies can be calculated forsteady flight at any speed in a rarefied gas .  the particular solutionwas made for a flat plate., however, the calculations can be easilyextended to bodies of arbitrary shape .it was found that the aerodynamic heating problem in the absence ofsolar radiation, that is, for the case of nocturnal flight, becomes ofnegligible importance at altitudes of 125 miles and higher and up tosteady flight speeds of 36,000 feet per second .  the effect of solarradiation, for the case of daytime flight, becomes increasinglyimportant as the flight altitude is increased .  at an altitude of 150miles and higher, solar radiation is the predominating factor thatdetermines skin temperature .  owing to the strong effect of solarradiation on skin temperatures at high altitudes, the desirability ofnocturnal flight is indicated in order to minimize skin temperatures .in order to maintain low skin temperatures, it was found that theangle of inclination of the body with respect to the flight path shouldbe kept as small as possible .  this may be accomplished in practiceby designing the body to be finely tapered and by flying the body atsmall angles of attack .it is pointed out that skin temperatures may be reduced by insuringthermal contact between portions of the skin inclined at positiveand negative angles with respect to the flight path .  as much surfaceas possible should be inclined at negative angles .  practically,this may be accomplished by boattailing the body .in the event that an internal skin-cooling system is employed, it isshown that the rate of internal cooling must be of the same order ofmagnitude or greater than the rate at which heat is lost naturallyby emitted radiation .  if the cooling rate is below the naturalradiation rate, cooling has little effect upon skin temperatures .it is shown that, in the case of a missile designed to fly over a widerange of altitudes and speeds, it is desirable to make the emissivityof the skin as high as possible .  this conclusion, however, isbased upon a skin surface for which the emissivity is independentof the wave length of the emitted and absorbed radiant energy .a possible method of reducing surface temperatures is indicated bythe decrease in skin temperature which accompanies a decrease inthermal accommodation coefficient .  this phenomenon may beused to advantage if it is possible to decrease the accommodationcoefficient by altering the surface characteristics of the skin .