a study of slender shapes of minimum drag using thenewton-busemann pressure coefficient law ..Amiele,a.a..Baiaa jnl. 1, 1963, 168..Wa study of slender shapes of minimum drag using thenewton-busemann pressure coefficient law .  the problem of minimizing the drag of a slender, two-dimensional or axisymmetric body in hypersonic flow at zero angle ofattack is considered under the assumption that the pressurecoefficient law is newton's impact law as modified by busemann inorder to include centripetal acceleration effects .  after thecondition that the pressure coefficient be nonnegative is accountedfor and after arbitrary conditions are imposed on, in additionto the thickness and the length, the enclosed area and the momentof inertia of the contour in the two-dimensional case and thewetted area and the volume in the axisymmetric case, theminimal problem is formulated as a problem of the mayer type andsolved by the combined use of the euler-lagrange equations,the transversality condition, the erdmann-weierstrass cornercondition, and the properties of the switching function .  particular attention is devoted to the class of problems suchthat, among the four quantities being considered, two areprescribed while the remaining are free .  for these problems, theextremal arc is composed of two subarcs ..  one is characterized bya positive pressure coefficient and is called the regular shape,. theother is characterized by a zero pressure coefficient and is calledthe free layer .  in this connection, the analysis shows theexistence of two different types of solutions depending on whether thethickness is given or free .  if the thickness is given, the expression for the regular shape isa power law, and the transition from the regular shape to the freelayer occurs in the second half of the body .  in the two-dimensional case, the exponent of the power law is 1 if the length is givenif the enclosed area is given, and 3 if the moment of inertiaof the contour is given,. the transition point from the powerbody to the free layer is located at 50 percent of the length if thelength is given, at 66 percent if the enclosed area is given, and atthe axisymmetric case, the exponent of the power law is ifthe length is given, 1 if the wetted area is given, and if thevolume is given,. the transition point from the power body to thefree layer is located at 60 percent of the length if the length isgiven, at 70 percent if the wetted area is given, and at 80 percentif the volume is given .  on the other hand, for problems where the thickness is free,the equation governing the regular shape is not that of a powerbody, and the point of transition to the free layer is located in thefirst half of the body .  in the two-dimensional case, thetransition point is at 28 percent of the length if the length and theenclosed area are given, at 32 percent if the length and the momentof inertia of the contour are given, and at 45 percent if theenclosed area and the moment of inertia of the contour are given .in the axisymmetric case, the transition point is located at 35percent of the length if the length and the wetted area are given,at 39 percent if the length and the volume are given, and at 46percent if the wetted area and the volume are given .  for all of the cases considered, analytical expressions areobtained for the optimum shapes, the thickness ratios, and the dragcoefficients .