uniformly valid second-order solution for supersonicflow over cruciform surfaces ..Awallace,j. and clarke,j.h..Baiaa jnl. 1, 1963, 179..Wuniformly valid second-order solution for supersonicflow over cruciform surfaces .  considered is the second-order supersonic flow over acruciform configuration consisting of two intersecting rectangularwings of high aspect ratio .  the practical interest is inapplication to supersonic inlets, wing-body junctions and vehicle fins .the fundamental interest centers about identification andadjustment of the severe local failures of the ordinary second-ordertheory .  for wings with discontinuous slopes, discontinuouspotentials occur across the planar shock and square-rootsingularities in the velocities occur at the intersection of these shockswith the cruciform surfaces .  the problem is simple enough sothat these interesting features stand out clearly .  a second-order solution uniformly valid to first order isconstructed by adjustment of the ordinary second-order solutionobtained first .  the uniformly valid solution has two differentseries representations in the thickness parameter .  one is theordinary second-order series in ascending integral powers of thethickness parameter which is valid in the interior of thevertex-centered undisturbed mach cone, and the other is a seriescontaining fractional powers which is valid adjacent to and upstreamof this mach cone .  the uniformly valid solution gives thedetailed wave structure and shows a flow regime upstream of thevertex-centered undisturbed mach cone not predicted by theordinary theory .  the two solutions are otherwise identical .the wave structure consists of a pyramidal arrangement of planarshocks adjacent to and upstream of the above cone, followed byweaker oblique expansion fans and finally by two extremelyweak shocks coincident with the vertex-centered undisturbedmach cone .  as an example of the above, detailed results arepresented for the case of two intersecting wedges .  applicationof the techniques to other quasi-cylindrical problems is discussed .