experimental effect of bluntness and gas rarefactionon drag coefficients and stagnation heat transfer onaxisymmetric shapes in hypersonic flow ..Abloxson,d.e. and rhodes,b.v..Bj. ae. scs.1962..Wexperimental effect of bluntness and gas rarefactionon drag coefficients and stagnation heat transfer onaxisymmetric shapes in hypersonic flow .  inverted hemispheres, circular discs (normal to stream),spheres, 26 total angle 0.368 blunt hemisphere cones, 18total-angle sharp cones, and other axisymmetric shapes were run in ahypervelocity wind tunnel .  hypersonic drag coefficients at zeroangle of attack were measured in the air velocity range, 7,000-efficient is defined as drag force .  knudsen number isdefined as mean free path behind shock sphere shockdetachment distance .  in the case of nonsphere shapes, the knudsennumber is defined as the knudsen number of a sphere with thesame base diameter .  these drag coefficients cover the range of gasdynamics to freemolecule flow and are given in graphical form .  the dragcoefficients were measured by means of a ballistic balance inmillisecond intervals, and referenced to the drag coefficient of asphere in the gasdynamics region, for a gamma of 1.4, of 0.92 .  tunnel stagnation conditions of pressure, temperature, density,and pressure drop with time were measured directly .  in thetunnel test section, velocity, q density, total pressure, and staticpressure were measured directly .  these experimental curves have been found useful in theanalysis of complex shapes if the complex shapes can be easily brokendown into simple components with small interactions betweencomponents .  heat-transfer distributions have also been obtained on theseand other complex shapes in the hypervelocity wind tunnel, bymeans of a special paint which changes through several visiblespectral orders within a heat transfer range of x10 for a singleapplication .  heat transfer rates, so obtained, have beenperformed in the hypersonic gasdynamic and slip flow regions andare presented for spheres .  these data, in the vorticity interactionregion, agree with the data of ferri and zakkay .