body under lifting wing ..Achen,c.f. and clarke,j.h..Bj. ae. scs. 1961, 547..Wbody under lifting wing .  an investigation is made of supersonic-aircraft configurationscomposed of a cambered body positioned a certain distancebeneath an arbitrary lifting wing .  the geometry of the wing isregarded as given and the geometry of the body may be given oroptimum .  expressions for the drag and lift are obtained fromreverse-flow considerations,. these greatly implement such astudy when interference cross flows must be cancelled .  thedrag advantage to be gained when a given body and wingassume a given orientation is studied .  treated more extensivelyis the variational problem of determining the optimum wingincidence and optimum body shape, for the given volume andlength, to yield the minimum drag for prescribed lift .numerical results are provided to indicate the significance of the largenumber of parameters appearing in the problem .  of these, thegap between the wing and the body is found to be particularlyimportant .  it is found that at low gap moderate bodydistortions have a significant influence on the drag .  drag reductionsof up to 44 relative to the case of no interference have beenfound at a mach number of 2.24 in a configuration having agap approximately equal to the maximum diameter of the body,and a wing chord of about three eighths of the length of the body .comparison is made with the conventional wing-bodycombination including the effects of skin friction, and it is concluded thatthe advantage suggested by the preceding considerations is notappreciably diminished .  finally, it is shown that theconfigurations studied lead to bodies of fineness ratios much lowerthan are appropriate to conventional wing-body combinations .  tests were made on an arrangement consisting of ascars-haack body located under a lifting rectangular diamond-profilewing .  the mach number was 1.6 and the reynolds numberwas 9.17 x 10 based on the body length .  it was found that themeasured lift developed on the wing due to the flow field of thebody agrees very well with the theoretical value .  downstreamof the impinging shock from the wing, flow separation wasobserved on the exterior of the body but not in the interior .  theseparation is attributed not to the pressure rise across the shockbut to the pressure field arising from the reflection from thebody of the shock-induced cross flow .  further observationssuggest that the separation can be avoided by pitching the bodyor by kinking the body at the shock wave to accommodate theshock-induced cross flow .