on the aerodynamic noise of a turbulent jet ..Acheng,sin-i..Bj. ae. scs. 1961, 321..Won the aerodynamic noise of a turbulent jet .  a new model is advanced for analyzing the broad-spectrumnoise of a turbulent jet .  the shear layer bounding the turbulentjet is assumed to play an important role in modifying the /quadrupole sound radiation/ from the interior .  to the sound-emitting small-scale turbulent eddies (with frequencies much higherthan those of large-scale eddies), the laminar shear layer has anirregular contour, as if the large-scale turbulent motions werefrozen .  the linearized analysis is then applied to the laminarshear layer to relate the acoustic oscillations across it .  the concept of geometrical acoustics is generalized to representthe passage of an acoustic ray through a laminar shear layer .acoustic rays may be traced across the shear layer astransmission and refraction, but they may also be apparently /absorbed/or /generated/ by the laminar layer .  this /generation/ isvisualized as the schematic representation, within the framework ofgeometrical acoustics, of the action of the reynolds stress intransferring energy from the shearing mean flow to the acousticwaves .  such action of the reynolds stress can be neglected inordinary acoustics when the acoustic medium is not moving atspeeds comparable to the speed of sound in the medium .however, this action is of crucial importance in the aerodynamic noiseof high-speed turbulent jets where the reynolds stress is thefundamental element of the radiating quadrupoles, according tolighthill .  those acoustic waves that become /stationary/ with respectto the local mean flow somewhere in the interior of the shear layerare significantly modified by the viscous action through thecritical layer .  the shear layer therefore serves as a selectiveamplifier of the acoustic waves passing through it .kinematically, the shear layer brings about the preferred downstreamemission ..  dynamically, the shear-layer augmentationsignificantly increases the polar peak noise level .  the acoustic poweroutput per unit solid angle for such downstream emissionsaugmented by the shear layer (including the polar peak) varies as,predicted by lighthill, but without lighthill's convectivecorrections .  on the other hand, the acoustic power output perunit solid angle nearly normal to the jet, due to the transmitteddownstream-propagating waves, varies roughly as .  heatingthe jet gas increases the shear-layer augmentation and mayincrease the polar peak noise level by several db .  the silencingaction of the edge notches and edge teeth may also beinterpreted as due apparently to the result of possible distortion ofthe shear-layer profiles .