an analytic extension of the shock-expansion method ..Awaldman,g.d. and probstein,r.f..Bj. ae. scs. 1961, 119..Wan analytic extension of the shock-expansion method .  the problem is considered of calculating approximately theinviscid rotational flow field and pressure distribution about asmooth two-dimensional airfoil with sharp leading and trailingedges in a uniform supersonic or hypersonic stream .  theassumption of a perfect gas is made, and the basic flow pattern forthe analysis is taken to be given by the simple isentropicshock-expansion method with straight characteristics .  an elementarycharacteristics treatment is discussed to show when the simpleshock-expansion method should be satisfactory for computingthe surface pressure distribution, and under what circumstancesit may be expected to break down .  by utilizing characteristicvariables the isentropic shock-expansion method is thenformulated analytically, and an analytic result is obtained for the shockshape corresponding to this zero-order approximation .  in thespecial case where hypersonic similitude is applicable, that is,for slender bodies and high mach numbers, the shock-shapeexpression for large distances is found to reduce to the resultpreviously given by mahony, which for weak shocks and slenderbodies in turn reduces to the simple-wave result first given byfriedrichs .  employing the analytic form of the isentropic shock-expansionmethod as a zero-order approximation, an analytically consistentperturbation method is developed by expanding the dependentflow variables in the exact partial differential equations in powersof the reflection coefficient for simple waves interacting with anoblique shock .  the scheme by its nature helps to define thoseregions in which shock expansion can be used, in addition totaking into account in a perturbation sense the factors neglectedin simple shock-expansion theory, namely, the curvature andreflection of the mach waves and the correct boundaryconditions at the shock wave .  analytic solutions are obtained forthe first-order corrections, including the surface pressuredistribution .  the necessary numerical computation of the integralsinvolved is considerably simpler than a direct application of themethod of characteristics .  to illustrate the method and itsaccuracy, the zero-order shock shape and first-order pressuredistribution are calculated for a family of parabolic arc airfoils atan infinite free-stream mach number .  these results arecompared with rotational characteristic solutions where available,and the present method is found to be in excellent agreement .