stable combustion of a high-velocity gas in a heatedboundary layer ..Aturcotte,d.l..Bj. ae. scs.1960..Wstable combustion of a high-velocity gas in a heatedboundary layer .  it is generally recognized that stable combustion processes inheated boundary layers may be achieved by either of twoconceptual mechanisms .  in one mechanism it is pictured that the heattransfer to the wall quenches the propagating flame at a certaindistance from the surface .  the equality between the flow velocityand the normal burning velocity at this quenching distancedetermines the position of the propagating flame .  in the secondmechanism it is conceived that the hot surface provides acontinuous source of ignition in much the same manner that the hotrecirculation zone of a bluff body flame holder provides continuousignition to the gas flowing around it .  in this case it is thecharacteristic time during which the gas must be heated that determinesthe position of the flame .  all experimental work reported to date has been concerned withconditions where the first picture has apparently been applicable .in the present paper, experiment and analysis are given that showunder what conditions the continuous ignition mechanism providesthe appropriate model and also how the two models are related .to differentiate the two mechanisms an experiment was set up tostudy flame stabilization in high-velocity boundary layers over awall heated in the form of a step function .  with a turbulentboundary layer and a wall temperature above 1,700f., thecharacteristic time was found to be a systematic and reproduciblevariable .  these observations led to the conclusion that acontinuous ignition mechanism governs stabilization in heatedturbulent boundary layers .  a rational explanation is made for thetransition from the low-speed mechanism known to be applicablein unheated turbulent boundary layers and heated laminarboundary layers to the ignition mechanism applicable in heatedturbulent boundary layers .  as a further verification of the continuous ignition mechanisman apparent ignition energy was found .  the logarithm of the heatadded at the lower stability limit was found to be a linear functionof the reciprocal of the limiting wall temperature .  the activationenergy derived from this arrhenius type of relation agreedreasonably well with the estimated value for the fuel used .