theory of supersonic propeller aerodynamics ..Aordway,d.e. and hale,r.w..Bj. ae. scs. 1960, 437..Wtheory of supersonic propeller aerodynamics .  a supersonic propeller with blades attached to an infinitecylinder as a hub is studied .  the forward speed may be subsonic, butthe relative speed at each section is supersonic .  the lightlyloaded blades are represented by a surface distribution ofappropriate /modified/ sources in a fashion similar to ordinarysupersonic thin-wing theory .  these sources are found byapproximating the exact potential for a constant-strengthcompressible source traveling along a helical path .  the usualrelationship between the source strength and boundary condition isfound,. and subsequently the source distribution is given, to theappropriate order, in terms of the blade geometry .  tip effects are considered by extending the theory of evvardand krasilshchikova .  the present investigation, however, isrestricted to those planforms for which no vortex sheet appearsoff the tip .  for points in the tip region, the potential is obtainedthrough the appropriate distribution of /modified/ sources in theupwash region off the tip .  by transforming to a curvilinear,nonorthogonal coordinate system coincident with the modified machlines described by the infinities of the potential, an integralequation for the required source distribution in the upwash region isderived .  without having to solve this equation, it is shown thatthe potential for a point in the tip region can be obtained in termsof an integration of known source distributions over the bladesurface only .  the case of a twisted flat plate of particular planform is treated,and a sample calculation is made of the pressure distribution atselected radial positions within the noncommunicating portionof the blade, as well as over the entire tip region .  though this analysis is carried out explicitly for the supersonicpropeller, it could also be extended to calculate various rotaryderivatives for highspeed flight vehicles .