two-dimensional jet mixing of a compressible fluid ..Apai,s.i..Bj.aero.scs. 16, 1949, 463..Wtwo-dimensional jet mixing of a compressible fluid .  the mixing and divergence of a supersonic jet exhausting intoa supersonic stream are investigated theoretically .  in the first part of this paper, the flow is assumed to be laminar .when the velocity and temperature in the jet are differentslightly from those of the surrounding stream, by the method ofsmall perturbations and under ordinary boundary layerassumptions, the equation of motion of two-dimensional flow will bereduced to a form of the well-known equation of heat conduction,whose solution is known for any given boundary conditions .  ithas also been shown that the exact solution of the twodimensional jet mixing of viscous compressible fluids can be obtainedby successive approximations starting with the solution of smallperturbations .  velocity and temperature distributions for two cases--one isthe mixing of two-uniform flows and the other is the mixing of ajet of compressible fluid from a two-dimensional nozzle with fullexpansion exhausting into a supersonic stream--have beencalculated .  the properties of the jet mixing depend mainly on themomentum of the jet regardless of whether the change ofmomentum is due to the change of velocity or the change oftemperature--i.e., the change of density .  compressibility has aconsiderable effect on the properties of the jet .  in the second part, the cases of turbulent flow are investigated .by means of reichardt's theory of free turbulence, the turbulentshearing stress may be expressed as  it has been shown in this paper thatwhere is a constant that can be determined experimentally .the value of n lies between 0 and 1 .  the exact value of ndepends on the condition of mixing .  when the expression of turbulent shearing stress given aboveis used instead of the viscous stress in the equation of motion,by suitable transformation of variables, it has been shown thatthe equation of two-dimensional turbulent jet mixing is identicalto that of the laminar case .  hence, the solution of the first partof this paper can be applied to the turbulent case, provided thatthe characteristic constants and n have been properly chosen .