viscosity effects in sound waves of finite amplitude:in survey in mechanics ..Alighthill,m.j..Bed. by g.k.batchelor and r.m.davies.  c.u.p. 1956..Wviscosity effects in sound waves of finite amplitude:in survey in mechanics .  this article has as its subject /the conflicting influence onsound propagation of convection on the one hand, and of diffusionand relaxation on the other/, whose importance in thedetermination of the structure of shock waves was first appreciated clearlyby sir geoffrey taylor .  as an essential introduction to the maintopics, author gives an exceptionally clear and valuable accountof the physical mechanisms of viscosity, thermal conductivity, andother diffusion effects, including relaxation .  the classical theoryof shock-wave formation is then discussed, and some extensionsare made .  the remainder of the article is based on the demonstration thatthe nonlinear equation for plane progressive sound waves, in whichconvection and diffusion are taken into account to a firstapproximation, can be transformed into burgers's equation, the generalsolution of which was given by hopf and cole .  this approach, inwhich all flows are continuous (they become discontinuous atshock waves in the limit as viscosity, etc., tend to zero), allowsthe author to re-derive and extend whitham's theory of theformation and decay of weak plane shock waves, and to derive manynew results, such as the velocity distributions during the unionof two shock waves and during the formation of a shock wave .the application of the same idea to non-plane shock waves isalso discussed, but more briefly,. in these cases, burgers'sequation is not quite such a good approximation as before .  the article concludes with sections on sound waves whosereynolds numbers based on the length scale of the flow and thevelocity amplitude are comparable with unity, and on the effectsof relaxation on the properties of shock waves .  the whole ismuch more than a survey, and represents a very substantialadvance in the theory of sound waves .  it is the finest possibletribute to sir geoffrey taylor that he should be able to inspirearticles such as this and the others in this volume .