experiments on the use of suction through perforatedstrips for maintaining laminar flow . transition anddrag measurements ..Agregory,n. and walker,w.s..Barc r + m 3083, 1955..Wexperiments on the use of suction through perforatedstrips for maintaining laminar flow . transition anddrag measurements .  wind-tunnel tests are described in which suctionis applied at perforated strips, as an alternative toporous strips or slots, in order to maintain a laminar boundarylayer .  a test was first carried out on a single row ofperforations on a cambered plate, as a preliminary to the maintests which were performed on strips of multiple rowsof perforations drilled through the surface of a low-drag-typeaerofoil 13 per cent thick and of 5-ft chord .  up to a wind speed of 180 ft sec it has been ascertained thatsuction may be safely applied to extend laminar flowprovided the ratio of hole diameter to boundary-layer displacementthickness is less than 2, the ratio of hole pitch todiameter is less than 3 and there are at least three rows of holesin the strip .  with less than three rows, the criteriaare much more restrictive .  it is possible to extend laminar flowby suction through perforations whose diameters andpitches exceed these values slightly, but only with the risk thatexcessive suction quantities will produce wedges ofturbulent boundary layer originating at the holes .  a uniform distribution of suction through the holes wasnecessary .  this was successfully obtained by two methods,the use of cells and throttle holes, and with tapered holes .in particular, tests were carried out on some panelssupplied by handley page, ltd., in which the cells and taperedholes had been constructed by commercial methods, andthe suction distribution proved satisfactory .  the resistance of some of the cellular arrangements wasmeasured .  it was found that when the suction quantitieswere the minimum required to maintain laminar flow, theadditional losses in total head of the sucked air due tothe resistance of the throttle holes could be made small comparedwith the loss in total head of the sucked boundarylayer .