an approximate solution for the axisymmetric jet of a laminarcompressible fluid ..Agdalia kleinstein.Bpolytechnic institute of brooklyn.Wan approximate solution for the axisymmetric jet of a laminarcompressible fluid .an extension of the modified-oseen method of carrier, based on thelinearization of the viscous term of the von mises transformation,is presented .  the method is employed to determine the velocity fieldassociated with the laminar axisymmetric jet flow of a compressiblegas with an arbitrary but constant external flow .  the approximatesolution is shown to be in good agreement with the exact numericalcalculation of pai .in many boundary layer problems it is not possible to make theassumption of flow similarity .  the solution in these cases can beobtained either by laborious finite difference techniques or byresort to approximate solutions .  carrier and lewis (1), and morerecently carrier (2), have suggested a method of obtaining approximatesolutions to problems involving convection and diffusion .  thismethod, termed by carrier /the modified-oseen method/, overcomes anessential difficulty of integral methods, namely, the generation ofreasonable profiles .  it is well known that the integral method givesaccurate results only if the analytical profiles represent closelythe true profiles .  according to the modified-oseen method theconvective operator in the original partial differential equationis replaced by a linear one .  the resulting equation for theboundary layer problem is the heat conduction equation which can betreated by well-known techniques .it is the purpose of this paper to indicate a modification of thisprocedure and to demonstrate its simplicity and accuracy by treating theaxisymmetric laminar flow of a compressible gas with arbitrary butconstant external flow .  the modification is based on the use of thevon mises transformation with a subsequent linearization of the viscousterm, rather than the linearization of the convective term . pai'sproblem (3), originally treated by a finite difference technique,is considered to illustrate the effectiveness of this method .