piston theory - a new aerodynamic tool for theaeroelastician ..Aashley,h. and zartarian,g..Bj. ae. scs. 23, 1956, 1109..Wpiston theory - a new aerodynamic tool for theaeroelastician .  representative applications are described which illustrate theextent to which simplifications in the solutions of high-speedunsteady aeroelastic problems can be achieved through the use ofcertain aerodynamic techniques known collectively as /pistontheory ./  based on a physical model originally proposed byhayes and lighthill, piston theory for airfoils and finite wingshas been systematically developed by landahl, utilizingexpansions in powers of the thickness ratio and the inverse of theflight mach number m .  when contributions of orders andare negligible, the theory predicts a point-functionrelationship between the local pressure on the surface of a wing and thenormal component of fluid velocity produced by the wing'smotion .  the computation of generalized forces in aeroelasticequations, such as the flutter determinant, is then alwaysreduced to elementary integrations of the assumed modes of motion .  essentially closed-form solutions are given for the bending-torsion and control-surface flutter properties of typical sectionairfoils at high mach numbers .  these agree well with results ofmore exact theories wherever comparisons can be fairly made .moreover, they demonstrate the increasingly important influenceof thickness and profile shape as m grows larger, a discovery thatwould be almost impossible using other available aerodynamictools .  the complexity of more practical flutter analyses-e.g., onthree-dimensional wings and panels-is shown to be substantiallyreduced by piston theory .  an iterative procedure is outlined, bywhich improved flutter eigenvalues can be found through thesuccessive introduction of higher-order terms in and  .  other applications to unsteady supersonic problems arereviewed, including gust response and rapid maneuvers of elasticaircraft .  steady-state aeroelastic calculations are also discussed,but for them piston theory amounts only to a slight modificationof ackeret's formulas .  suggestions are made regarding future research based on thenew aerodynamic method, with particular emphasis on areas wherecomputational labor can be reduced with a minimum loss ofprecision .  it is pointed out that a mach number zone exists wherethermal effects are appreciable but nonlinear viscous interactionsmay be neglected, and that in this zone piston theory is the logicalway of estimating air loads when analyzing aerodynamic-thermoelastic interaction problems .