the determination of turbulent skin friction by meansof pitot tubes ..Apreston,j.h..Bj.roy.ae.s. 58, 1954, 109..Wthe determination of turbulent skin friction by meansof pitot tubes .  a simple method of determininglocal turbulent skin friction on a smoothsurface has been developed which utilises around pitot tube resting on the surface .assuming the existence of a region near thesurface in which conditions are functionsonly of the skin friction, the relevant physicalconstants of the fluid and a suitable length,a universal non-dimensional relation isobtained for the difference between the totalpressure recorded by the tube and the staticpressure at the wall, in terms of the skinfriction .  this relation, on this assumption,is independent of the pressure gradient .the truth and form of the relation were firstestablished, to a considerable degree ofaccuracy, in a pipe using four geometricallysimilar round pitot tubes--the diameterbeing taken as representative length .  these fourpitot tubes were then used to determinethe local skin friction coefficient at three stationson a wind tunnel wall, under varyingconditions of pressure gradient .  at each station,within the limits of experimentalaccuracy, the deduced skin friction coefficient wasfound to be the same for each pitottube, thus confirming the basic assumption andleaving little doubt as to the correctnessof the skin friction so found .  pitot traverseswere then made in the pipe and in theboundary layer on the wind tunnel wall .  the resultswere plotted in two non-dimensionalforms on the basis already suggested and theyfell close together in a region whoseouter limit represented the breakdown of thebasic assumption, but close to the wallthe results spread out, due to the unknowndisplacement of the effective centre of apitot tube near a wall .  this again providesfurther evidence of the existence of aregion of local dynamical similarity and of thecorrectness of the skin friction deducedfrom measurements with round pitot tubes onthe wind tunnel wall .  the extent of theregion in which the local dynamical similaritymay be expected to hold appears to varyfrom about to of the boundary-layerthickness for conditions remote from,and close to, separation respectively .