approximate analytical solutions for hypersonic flowpast slender power-law bodies ..Amirels,h..Bnasa r-15, 1959..Wapproximate analytical solutions for hypersonic flowpast slender power-law bodies .approximate analytical solutions are presentedfor two-dimensional and axisymmetrichypersonic flow over blunt-nosed slender bodies whoseshapes follow a power law variation .  in particular,the body shape is given by where is thetransverse body ordinate, is the streamwise distancefrom the nose, and m is a constant in the range .both zero-ordersolutions and first-order (small but nonvanishing valuesof solutions are presented, where m is thefree-stream mach number and is a characteristicbody or streamline slope .  the zero-order shock shapeis similar to the body shape for these flows .  thesolutions are found within the framework ofhypersonic-slender-body theory .  the limiting case m=1 corresponds to a wedgeor cone flow .  the limiting casecorresponds to a constant-energy flow .the latter cases are includedso that the present study may be applied to all flowswherein the zero-order shock shape is given bywith m in the range .  flowfields associated with shock shapes having values of moutside this range are also discussed .  for all valuesof, except m=1, certain portions of the flow fieldriolate the hypersonic-slender-body approximations,while other portions are consistent with theseapproximations .  for m=1, all portions of the flow fieldare consistent with the approximations .  the approximate solutions are found as follows .the asymptotic form of the flow in the vicinity of thebody surface is used as a guide to write approximateexpressions for the dependent variables .  theseexpressions exactly satisfy the continuity andenergy equations and contain arbitrary constantswhich are evaluated so as to satisfy boundaryconditions at the shock .  the approximate solutions donot satisfy the lateral momentum equation except atthe shock and (for the first-order problem) at the bodysurface .  the results of the approximate solutions arecompared with numerical integrations of theequations of motion for various values of m and (ratioof specific heats) .  good agreement is noted,particularly when m and are both near one .  theshock is relatively close to the body for the lattercases .  sufficient results are presented to evaluatethe accuracy of the approximate method for variousvalues of m and .