an analysis of the corridor and guidance requirementsfor supercircular entry planetary atmospheres ..Achapman,d.r..Bnasa r-55, 1959..Wan analysis of the corridor and guidance requirementsfor supercircular entry planetary atmospheres .  an analysis is presented of supercircular entryinto a planet's atmosphere giving particular attentionto the corridor through which spacecraft must beguided in order to accomplish various maneuvers .a dimensionless parameter based on conditions atthe conic perigee altitude is introduced forcharacterizing supercircular entries and convenientlyprescribing corridor widths associated with elliptic,parabolic, or hyperbolic approach trajectories .  theanalysis applies to vehicles of arbitrary weight, shape,and size .  illustrative calculations are made forvenus, earth, mars, jupiter, and titan .  for nonlifting vehicles having fixed aerodynamiccoefficients, curves are presented of dimensionlessparameters from which can be calculated the maximumdeceleration, maximum rate of laminar convectiveheating, and total laminar heat absorbed duringsingle-pass entry at velocities up to twice circularvelocity .  for lifting vehicles, curves are presented ofthe maximum deceleration and overshoot boundaryof an entry corridor,. equations are presented forestimating laminar aerodynamic heating from themaximum deceleration .  it is shown that the corridorwidth is independent of vehicle weight, dimensions,and drag coefficient, provided these are the same atthe overshoot boundary as at undershoot .  thecorridors of certain planets can be broadenedmarkedly by the application of aerodynamic lift,. forexample, the 10-earth-g corridor width forsingle-pass, nonlifting, parabolic entry is increased fromto 52, 51, and 52 miles, respectively, by employing alift-drag ratio of 1 .  the use of aerodynamic liftdoes not increase appreciably the corridors of marsand titan .  all corridor widths decrease rapidlyas the entry velocity is increased .  terminal guidance requirements on accuracy ofvelocity and flight path angle for successfully enteringvarious corridors are compared with analogousrequirements for putting a satellite into orbit, forhitting the moon from the earth, and for achievingicbm accuracy .  consideration is given to theterminal guidance problem involved in using aplanet's atmosphere--rather than rocket fuel--toeffect orbital transfers from heliocentric toplaneto-centric motion, thereby converting a hyperbolicapproach trajectory to an elliptic orbit about thetarget planet .  this fuel saving maneuver appearstechnologically feasible for certain planetary voyages,and implies the possibility of achieving a largereduction in required earth lift-off weight of chemicalpropulsion systems .