the effect of a central jet on the base pressure ofa cylindrical afterbody in a supersonic stream ..Areid,j. and hastings,r.c..Barc r + m.3224, 1962..Wthe effect of a central jet on the base pressure ofa cylindrical afterbody in a supersonic stream .  this report describes an experimental investigationof the factors affecting the base flow andjet structure behind a cylindrical after-body with a central nozzle .seven interchangeable nozzles were tested .six of these were convergent-divergent, with a design machnumber of 2.0, jet base diameter ratios rangingfrom 0.2 to 0.8 and nozzle divergence angles ranging fromconvergent with a jet base diameter ratio of 0.6 .  in the main experimental programme the free-streammach number was 2.0 and the boundary layer wasturbulent both on the after-body and in the nozzle .measurements were made of the base pressure, the surfacepressure distribution inside the nozzle, the overall thrustand the nozzle mass flow, over a range of jet pressures .this programme was supplemented by comparativetests with the jet exhausting into still air (static tests) .readings were taken of the internal nozzle pressuresand the jet thrust at different jet pressures .  schlierenphotography was used extensively throughout .  the results of the tests with external flow arepresented in the form of curves showing the separate effectsof jet pressure ratio, jet base diameter ratio, nozzledesign mach number and nozzle divergence angle on thebase pressure and overall thrust .  the special caseof base bleed is discussed separately .  similar curves areincluded for the static tests .  these show the effectof jet pressure ratio and nozzle geometry on the jet thrust .  a general method of correlating data on annularbase pressures is proposed and discussed .  essentially, thismethod compares the pressure on an annularbase with the calculated pressure on the correspondingtwo-dimensional base .  it correlates the presentresults reasonably well, but is less successful when appliedto more extensive data .