investigation of separated flows in supersonic and subsonicstreams with emphasis on the effect of transition ..Achapman, d.r., kuehn, d. m. and larson, h. k..Bnaca report 1356.Winvestigation of separated flows in supersonic and subsonicstreams with emphasis on the effect of transition .experimental and theoretical research has been conducted onflow separation associated with steps, bases, compression corners,curved surfaces, shock-wave boundary-layer reflections, andconfigurations producing leading-edge separation . results wereobtained from pressure-distribution measurements,shadow-graph observations, high-speed motion pictures, and oil-filmoptics . the maximum scope of measurement encompassedmach numbers between 0.4 and 3.6, and length reynoldsnumbers between 4000 and 5000000 .   the principal variable controlling pressure distribution inthe separated flows was found to be the location of transitionrelative to the reattachment and separation positions .classification is made of each separated flow into one of three regimes ..and /turbulent/ with transition upstream of separation .by this means of classificaiton it is possible to state ratherliteral results regarding the steadiness of flow and the influenceof reynolds number within each regime .for certain pure laminar separations a theory for calculatingdead-air pressure is advanced which agrees well with subsonicand supersonic experiments . this theory involves no empiricalinformation and provides an explanation of why transitionlocation relative to reattachment is important . a simple analysisof the equations for interaction of boundary-layer and externalflow near either laminar or turbulent separation indicates thepressure rise to vary as the square root of the wall shear stressat the beginning of interaction . various experiments substantiate tnisvariation for most test conditions . an incidentalobservation is that the stability of a separated laminar mixinglayer increases markedly with an increase in mach number .the possible significance of this observation is discussed .