experimental investigation of base pressure on blunt-trailing-edgewings of supersonic velocities ..Achapman,d.r., wimbrow,w.r. and kester,r.h..Bnaca r1109..Wexperimental investigation of base pressure on blunt-trailing-edgewings of supersonic velocities .  measurements of base pressure are presented for 29blunt-trailing-edge wings having an aspect ratio of 3.0 and variousairfoil profiles .  the different profiles comprised thicknessratios between 0.05 and 0.10, boattail angles between --2.9and 20, and ratios of trailing-edge thickness to airfoil thicknessbetween 0.2 and 1.0 .  the tests were conducted at mach numbersof 1.25, 1.5, 2.0, and 3.1 .  for each mach number, the reynoldsnumber and angle of attack were varied .  the lowest reynoldsnumber investigated was 0.2 x 10 and the highest was 3.5 x 10 .measurements on each wing were obtained separately withturbulent flow and laminar flow in the boundary layer .span-wise surveys of the base pressure were conducted on severalwings .  the results with turbulent boundary-layer flow showed onlysmall effects on base pressure of variations in reynolds number,airfoil profile shape, boattail angle, and angle of attack .  theprincipal variable affecting the base pressure for turbulent flowwas the mach number .  at the highest mach numberinvestigated (3.1), the ratio of boundary-layer thickness totrailing-edge thickness also affected the base pressure significantly .  the results obtained with laminar boundary-layer flow tothe trailing edge showed that the effect of reynolds number onbase pressure was large .  in all but a few exceptional casesthe effects on base pressure of variations in angle of attack andin profile shape upstream of the base were appreciable thoughnot large .  the principal variable affecting the base pressurefor laminar flow was the ratio of boundary-layer thickness totrailing-edge thickness .  for a few exceptional cases involving laminar flow to thetrailing edge, the effects on base pressure of variations in profileshape, boattail angle, and angle of attack were found to beunusually large .  in such cases the variation of base pressurewith angle of attack was discontinuous and exhibited ahysteresis .  stroboscopic schlieren observations at a mach numberof 1.5 indicated that these apparently special phenomena wereassociated with a vortex trail of relatively high frequency .