measurement of two dimensional derivatives on a wing-aileron-tabsystem ..Awight,k.c..Bpart i, arc r + m 2934, 1955.  part ii arc r + m 3029, 1958..Wmeasurement of two dimensional derivatives on a wing-aileron-tabsystem .  measurements have been made of the directtwo-dimensional damping and stiffness derivatives for ain incompressible flow .  corrections arising from the apparatus are discussed andreference is made to an attempt to measure the directtab derivatives .  the effects are shown of frequency parameter, amplitude ofoscillation, reynolds number, aileron angle and positionof transition on the wing .  variation with frequency parameter is substantially thesame as for vortex-sheet theory and variation of amplitudeproduces little change in both derivatives .  at the lowestreynolds number there is little change in both derivativeswith variation of aileron angle for the condition of naturaltransition, but at higher reynolds numbers the stiffnessderivatives increase at .  a forward movement of transition reduces the stiffnessderivatives at the smaller aileron angles, but at,at the lowest reynolds number, an increase results .  similar trends are observed for the damping derivatives above .  comparison with vortex-sheet theory shows that themeasured values of the stiffness and dampingderivatives are approximately 0.6 of the theoretical values .  measurements have been made of the directtab derivatives and cross aileron-tab derivatives for aper cent aileron and 4 per cent (approx.) tab .  in additionsome measurements of the direct aileron derivatives have beenmade for comparison with earlier results together with anumber of static derivatives for the wing and controls .  the influence is shown of frequency parameter, reynoldsnumber, position of transition, mean tab angle and sealingof the control hinge gaps .  some tests have been made withthe ailcron set at minus 8 deg and the tab at plus 12 degfor which condition the hinge moment on the aileron was zero .  reasonable agreement with the values given by the /equivalentprofile/ theory is shown for both direct dampingderivatives and for the direct tab stiffness derivative .  the directaileron stiffness derivative shows some departure fromthe theoretical value when .  at and the natural transition, comparisonwith the values given by flat-plate theory gives thefollowing approximate factors, where suffix denotes thetheoretical values ..