theory and tunnel tests of rotor blade for supersonicturbines ..Astratford,b.s. and sansome,g.e..Barc r + m 3275, 1960..Wtheory and tunnel tests of rotor blade for supersonicturbines .  in special circumstances where a large workoutput is required from a turbine in a single stageit is necessary to use high pressure ratios across thenozzle blades, thus producing supersonic velocities atinlet to the rotor .  as part of an investigation into suchturbines, several designs for the inter-blade passages ofthe rotor have been tested in a two-dimensional tunnel,a design theory being developed concurrently .  the first design, featuring constant passage widthand curvature as in steam-turbine practice, but havingthin leading and trailing edges, was found to suffer fromfocusing of the compression waves from the concavesurface, with consequent flow separation from theopposite convex surface .  it gave a velocity coefficient ofmeasured at an inlet mach number of 1.90 and turningangle of 140 deg .  the measured value compares favourablywith values from previous steam tests, where theresults have been in the range from 0.65 to 0.92 .  from theoretical reasoning, and from additional testobservations, a subsequent passage was designedhaving an inlet transition length of small curvature, leadingto a free-vortex passage of double the transitioncurvature,. a small amount of contraction was incorporated .schlieren photographs showed the flow in thispassage to be almost shock free .  a thin region of low-energyair existed close to the convex surface, butliquid-injection tests located only one small bubble of reversed flow .pressure traverses at exit indicated a velocitycoefficient of 0.952, based on the area-mean total pressure .when allowance is made for turning angle andreynolds number this result appears to compare quite favourablywith previous work .  it would seem that the optimum blade pitching in a turbinewould be about 20 to 30 per cent closer than in atwo-dimensional cascade .  however, the resultant pitchingtends to become very close, except at very largeturning angles, with the result that in some applicationsdifficulties could arise in the practical design andmanufacture .  several uncertainties remain and the present design must be regardedas still experimental .