elliptic cones alone and with wings at supersonic speeds ..Ajorgensen,l.h..Bnaca tn4045,1957.Welliptic cones alone and with wings at supersonic speeds .  to help fill the gap in the knowledgeof aerodynamics of shapesintermediate between bodies of revolutionand flat triangular wings, forceand moment characteristics for ellipticcones have been experimentallydetermined for mach numbers of 1.97 andsectional axis ratios from 1 through 6and with lengths and base areasequal to circular cones of finenessratios 3.67 and 5 have been studiedfor angles of bank of 0 and 90 .elliptic and circular cones incombination with triangular wings of aspectratios 1 and 1.5 also have beenconsidered .  the angle-of-attack rangewas from 0 to about 16, and thereynolds number was 8x10, based onmodel length .  in addition to theforces and moments at angle of attack,pressure distributions for ellipticcones at zero angle of attack have been determined .  the results of this investigationindicate that there are distinctaerodynamic advantages to the use ofelliptic cones .  with their majorcross-sectional axes horizontal, theydevelop greater lift and have higherlift-drag ratios than circular conesof the same fineness ratio and volume .in combination with triangular wingsof low aspect ratio, they also develophigher lift-drag ratios than circularcones with the same wings .  forwinged elliptic cones, this increasein lift-drag ratio results both fromlower zero-lift drag and drag due tolift .  visual-flow studies indicatethat, because of better streamliningin the crossflow plane, vortex flowis inhibited more for an elliptic conewith major axis in the plane of thewing than for a circular cone with thesame wing .  as a result, vortexdrag resulting from lift is reduced .shifts in center of pressure withchanges in angle of attack and machnumber are small and about the sameas for circular cones .  comparisons of theoretical andexperimental force and momentcharacteristics for elliptic cones indicatethat simple linearized (flat plate)wing theory is generally adequate evenfor relatively thick cones .zero-lift pressure distributions and dragcan be computed using van dyke'ssecond-order slender-body theory .for winged circular cones, amodification of the slender-body theory ofnaca rep. 962 results in good agreementof theory with experiment .