a second order shock-expansion method applicable tobodies of revolution near zero lift ..Asyvertson,c.a. and denis,d.h..Bnaca tn.3527..Wa second order shock-expansion method applicable tobodies of revolution near zero lift .  a second-order shock-expansionmethod applicable to bodies ofrevolution near zero lift is developed .expressions defining the pressures onnoninclined bodies are derived by theuse of characteristics theory incombination with properties of the flowpredicted by the generalizedshock-expansion method .  this result isextended to inclined bodies toobtain expressions for the normal-forceand pitching-moment derivativesat zero angle of attack .  the method isintended for application underconditions between the ranges of applicabilityof the second-orderpotential theory and the generalized shock-expansionmehtod - namely, when theratio of free-stream mach number to nose finenessratio is in theneighborhood of 1 .  for noninclined bodies, the pressuredistributions predicted by thesecond-order shock-expansion method arecompared with existing experimentalresults and with predictions of othertheories .  for inclined bodies, thenormal-force derivatives and locationsof the center of pressure at zeroangle of attack predicted by the methodare compared with experimentalresults for mach numbers from 3.00 to 6.28 .fineness ratio 7, 5, and 3cones and tangent ogives were tested aloneand with cylindrical afterbodiesup to 10 diameters long .  in general, thepredictions of the present methodare found to be in good agreement with theexperimental results .  fornon-inclined bodies, pressure distributionspredicted with the method are ingood agreement with existing experimentalresults and with distributionsobtained with the method of characteristics .for inclined bodies, thenormal-force derivatives per radian (fornormal-force coefficientsreferenced to body base area) are predictedwithin 0.2 and the locations ofthe center of pressure are predictedwithin 0.2 body diameters .  on thebasis of these results, thesecond-order shock-expansion method appearsapplicable for values of the ratioof free-stream mach number to nosefineness ratio from 0.4 to 2 .