an improved smoke generator for use in the visualisationof airflow, particularly boundary layer flow at highreynolds numbers ..Apreston,j.h. and sweeting,n.e..Barc r + m 2023, 1943..Wan improved smoke generator for use in the visualisationof airflow, particularly boundary layer flow at highreynolds numbers .and rapid method by which boundarylayer flow was rendered visible has beenpreviously described in the journal of the royalaeronautical society .  it gave promise ofbeing useful at the highest tunnel speeds provideda denser smoke could be obtained, which atthe same time was free from the troublesome depositsassociated with the wood smoke .of the aerodynamics division attempts were madeby the fuel research station to improve thedensity of the wood smoke and to reduce thedeposits .  these they showed were conflictingrequirements, and whilst some improvementwas effected, it was not sufficient for observationin the new tunnels at high speeds .  the staff of the director-general of scientificresearch and development, ministry of supply,was then approached and it was decided todevelop an oil smoke generator from a simplegenerator of this type which was demonstratedto us .  this has been done successfully .the final apparatus in contrast to the wood smokegenerator is light and compact .  it takesonly a few minutes to start and can be run as long as desired .improvement on the wood smoke both as regardsdensity and freedom from deposits, which causepremature transition .  the density and qualityof the smoke are now under control .  smokesranging from a light smoke of bluish white colourto a heavy smoke dense white in appearancecan be obtained .  the oil smoke retains theadvantages of the wood smoke in that it isnon-corrosive and non-irritant, and the smell can betolerated even when it is present in a considerableconcentration .  a certain amount of condensationis inevitable with oil smokes, but with suitableprecautions troubles arising from this can beavoided .  a dry solid smoke made by melting ahard wax was successfully generated with thesame apparatus .  unfortunately because of itsflocculent nature this smoke gave rise to soliddeposits when passed through bore tubing,leading eventually to complete blockage .  thisseems to be a feature of solid smokes .  the apparatus has been used to determinetransition and laminar separation points on modelwings in a number of the national physicallaboratory tunnels .  smoke filaments have beenmaintained in the laminar state up to windspeeds of 180 ft. sec. in the new tunnels .  there is much to be said for making a standardpractice of visualising boundary layer flow onmodels, particularly as the technique is simple andrapid .  it would greatly assist theinterpretation of force measurements and the more detailedexplorations of the boundary layer by totalhead tubes and hot wires .  the use of oil smoke is not limited toboundary layer flow visualisation .  the apparatusdescribed in this report would seem to beparticularly suited for educational work in smalldemonstration tunnels .