inviscid hypersonic flow over blunt-nosed slender bodies ..Alees,l. and kubota,t..Bj. ae. scs. 24, 1957, 195..Winviscid hypersonic flow over blunt-nosed slender bodies .  at hypersonic speeds the drag area of a blunt nose is muchlarger than the drag area of a slender afterbody, and the energycontained in the flow field in a plane at right angles to the flightdirection is nearly constant over a downstream distance manytimes greater than the characteristic nose dimension .  thetransverse flow field exhibits certain similarity properties directlyanalogous to the flow similarity behind an intense blast wavefound by g. i. taylor, s. c. lin, and a. sakurai .  a comparisonwith the experiments of hammitt, vas, and bogdonoff on aflat plate with a blunt leading edge at in helium showsthat the shock-wave shape is predicted very accurately by thissimilarity analysis .  the predicted surface pressure distributionis somewhat less satisfactory .  experimental results on ahemisphere-cylinder obtained at in the galcit air tunnelindicate that not only the shock-wave shape but also the surfacepressures for this body are given very closely by the similaritytheory, except near the hemisphere-cylinder junction .  energy considerations combined with a detailed study of theequations of motion show that flow similarity is also possible fora class of bodies of the form, provided that,where for a two-dimensional body and for abody of revolution .  when the shock shape is notsimilar to the body shape, and the entire flow field somedistance from the nose must depend to some extent on the detailsof the nose geometry .  by again utilizing energy and drag considerations one findsthat at hypersonic speeds the inviscid surface pressuresgenerated by a blunt leading edge are larger than the pressuresinduced by boundary-layer growth on an insulated flat surfacefor an insulated blunt-nosed slender body of revolution thecorresponding distance is given by .  (hereis free-stream reynolds number based on leading-edgethickness, or nose diameter .)  in free flight these constants arereplaced by 1,700 and 20, respectively, so that viscousinteraction effects are important over the forward portion of a blunt-nosed slender body only for relatively low values of .however, /far downstream/ of the nose the inviscid over-pressure issmall and viscous interaction phenomena will have to be takeninto account .