the formation of a blast wave by a very intense explosion ..Ataylor,g.i..Bproc. roy. soc. a, 201, 1950, 159..Wthe formation of a blast wave by a very intense explosion .this paper was written early in 1941and circulated to the civil defence researchcommittee of the ministry of home securityin june of that year .  the present writerhad been told that it might be possibleto produce a bomb in which a very largeamount of energy would be released bynuclear fission--the name atomic bomb hadnot then been used--and the work heredescribed represents his first attempt to forman idea of what mechanical effects mightbe expected if such an explosion could occur .in the then common explosive bomb mechanicaleffects were produced by the suddengeneration of a large amount of gas at a hightemperature in a confined space .  thepractical question which required an answerwas ..  would similar effects be producedif energy could be released in a highlyconcentrated form unaccompanied by thegeneration of gas .qm  this paper has nowbeen declassified, and though it has beensuperseded by more complete calculations,it seems appropriate to publish it as it wasfirst written, without alteration, except forthe omission of a few lines, the addition ofthis summary, and a comparison with somemore recent experimental work, so thatthe writings of later workers in this field may be appreciated .  an ideal problem is here discussed .  a finiteamount of energy is suddenly releasedin an infinitely concentrated form .  the motionand pressure of the surrounding air iscalculated .  it is found that a spherical shockwave is propagated outwards whoseradius r is related to the time t since the explosionstarted by the equationwhere is the atmospheric density, e isthe energy released and s a calculatedfunction of, the ratio of the specific heats of air .  the effect of the explosion is to force mostof the air within the shock front into athin shell just inside that front .  as the frontexpands, the maximum pressuredecreases till, at about 10 atm., the analysis ceasesto be accurate .  at 20 atm. 45 ofthe energy has been degraded into heat which isnot available for doing work and usedup in expanding against atmospheric pressure .this leads to the prediction that anatomic bomb would be only half as efficient, asa blast-producer, as a high explosivereleasing the same amount of energy .  in the ideal problem the maximum pressure isproportional to r, and comparisonwith the measured pressures near high explosives,in the range of radii where the twomight be expected to be comparable, shows thatthese conclusions are borne out byexperiment .