oscillatory aerodynamic coefficients for a unified supersonichypersonic strip theory ..Arodden, w. +. and revell, j.d..Bj. ae. scs. 1960, 451..Woscillatory aerodynamic coefficients for a unified supersonichypersonic strip theory .  the shock tube is shown to be a feasible research tool forconducting boundary-layer transition experiments .  the use of theshock tube permits the study of transition with highly cooledboundary layers, as may be encountered on hypersonic vehicles .  boundary-layer transition investigations have been made onoptically polished pyrex hemisphere-cylinder and ellipse-cylindermodels with stagnation-to-wall enthalpy ratios between 4.5 androughness estimated to be less than 1 microinch (rms) .transition was detected by measurements of the heat-transfer rates onthe model surface .  the shock tube experiments indicated that a characteristicfeature of transition of a highly cooled boundary layer on ahemisphere was the simultaneous occurrence of transition over theentire supersonic portion of the hemisphere .  this implies thattransition first occurred in the sonic region .  the transitionreynolds number (based on local fluid properties at the outeredge of the boundary layer and the momentum thickness) in thesonic region increased from about 225 to 325 as the stagnation-to-wall enthalpy ratio increased from about 9.5 to 29.5 .  transitionoccurred along the cylindrical portion of the hemisphere-cylindermodel at a nearly constant momentum thickness reynoldsnumber, increasing from about 400 to 625 as the stagnation-to-wall enthalpy ratio increased from about 9.5 to 29.5 .  the highly cooled boundary layers obtained on the cylindricalportion of the shock tube hemisphere-cylinder model provided anextension of nasa transition results obtained on a cooledhemisphere-cone-cylinder model in a wind tunnel .  the transitionreynolds numbers obtained from these shock tube data were ofthe same order of magnitude as the minimum transitionreynolds numbers obtained in the wind-tunnel experiments .  theresults indicate that, for practical purposes, boundary-layercooling is not a critical transition parameter for blunt bodies witha highly cooled boundary layer resulting from a stagnation-to-wall enthalpy ratio of about 3 to 30 .  that is, the transitionreynolds number did not vary significantly with boundary-layer cooling in this cooling range, but transition always occurredat a low reynolds number (between about 350,000 and 750,000based on local external properties and a distance along the bodysurface from the stagnation point) .  the boundary-layer history (body shape history) appeared tobe an important parameter affecting the magnitude of thereynolds number for transition and the amount of increase in thetransition reynolds number with increased boundary-layercooling .  that is, transition occurred at a lower reynoldsnumber on the ellipse-cylinder configuration than on thehemisphere-cylinder .  also, the increase in transition reynolds number withan increase in boundary-layer cooling was even less significantfor the ellipse-cylinder than the hemisphere-cylinder .