scale effects at high subsonic and transonic speedsand methods for fixing transition in model experiments ..Ahaines,a.b., holder,d.w. and pearcey,h.h..Barc r + m3012, 1954..Wscale effects at high subsonic and transonic speedsand methods for fixing transition in model experiments .  the major scale effects at high subsonic and transonicspeeds arise from differences between the conditionsunder which laminar and turbulent boundary layers separate, and inhow they behave after separation .  for turbulentboundary layers, these conditions and behaviour do not vary greatlyas the reynolds number is changed and in manyexamples, it has been shown that they are similar for the turbulentlayers that occur naturally at high reynolds numberand for boundary layers in which transition to turbulent flow is fixedartificially .  the scale effects arising in wind-tunneltests made at low reynolds number may, therefore, often beminimised by fixing transition to turbulent flow byintroducing an artificial disturbance such as that produced byexcrescences attached to the surface .  the fact that theeffects of separation are often less severe for laminar layers thanfor the turbulent layers that are likely to be encounteredat full scale, makes it all the more important to do this wheneverpossible .  several methods which can be used to fix transition are described,and the results obtained by using them are compared .in general, in experiments in two-dimensional flow, good agreementis found, and explanations can be advanced forcases in which discrepancies occur .  several uncertainties anddifficulties that arise in fixing transition are discussedand illustrated by examples .  in particular, special care is neededin interpreting the results obtained with transitionfixed at very low reynolds numbers (say, less than about r = 1 x 10based on local chord for wings of about 0.1thickness chord ratio and possibly higher reynolds numbers for thinnerwings) .  the difficulties of fixing transition satisfactorily are increasedfor three-dimensional wings, particularly if they areswept-back or highly tapered (i.e., small chord and reynoldsnumber near the tip) and if the tests cover a large rangeof incidence including high incidences for which the flow mayseparate from very close to the leading edge .  underthese circumstances, it is frequently necessary to place theexcrescences at different chordwise positions for low andhigh angles of incidence, and this is inconvenient in practice .more research is needed before sound recommendationscan be made as to how and where transition should be fixedon such models, particularly since in routine testing, it isoften not possible to check the effects of transition-fixing fully .  in the sections dealing with three-dimensional tests, examplesare given of the spurious results that have been avoidedsuccessfully by fixing transition, of the conditions where evenat low reynolds numbers artificial fixing of transitionmay not be necessary to give a turbulent boundary layer aheadof the shock, and of the conditions under which thereare some doubts whether the methods used for fixing transitionhave been satisfactory .