various aerodynamic characteristics in hypersonic rarefiedgas flow ..Aprobstein,r.f. and kemp,n.h..Bj. ae. scs. 27, 1960..Wvarious aerodynamic characteristics in hypersonic rarefiedgas flow .  this paper considers the problem of calculating viscousaerodynamic characteristics of blunt bodies at hypersonic speeds andat sufficiently high altitudes where the appropriate mean freepath becomes too large for the use of familiar boundary-layertheory but not so large that free molecule concepts apply .  results of an order-of-magnitude analysis are presented todefine the regimes of rarefied gas flow and the limits ofcontinuum theory .  based on theoretical and experimentalevidence, the complete navier-stokes equations are used as amodel, except /very close/ to the free molecule condition .  thismodel may not necessarily give the shock wave structure indetail but satisfies overall conservation laws and should give areasonably accurate picture of all mean aerodynamic quantities .  in this /intermediate/ regime there are two fundamental classesof problems ..  a /viscous layer/ class and a /merged layer/class, the latter corresponding to a larger degree of rarefaction .for the viscous layer class there is a thin shock wave, but theshock layer region between the shock and the body is fullyviscous, although the viscous stresses and conductive heat transferare small at the shock wave boundary .  here, the use of thenavier-stokes equations with outer boundary conditions givenby the hugoniot relations is justified .  for the merged layerclass, the shock wave is no longer thin, and the navier-stokesequations can be used to give a solution which includes the shockstructure and has free-stream conditions as outer boundaryconditions .  a simpler procedure is presented for /incipient merged/conditions where the shock may no longer be considered aninfinitesimally thin discontinuity but where it has not thickenedsufficiently to entail the /fully merged layer/ analysis .  in thiscase we approximate the shock by a discontinuity obeyingconservation laws which include curvature effects, viscous stresses,and heat conduction .  for a sphere and cylinder it is shown that the navier-stokesequations can be reduced to ordinary differential equations forboth the viscous and merged layer class of problems .  solutionsof these equations, when used in connection with hypersonic flowproblems, are in general only valid in the stagnation region .  toillustrate the viscous layer solutions, numerical calculationshave been performed for a sphere and cylinder with theassumption of constant density in the shock layer, which is a usefulapproximation at hypersonic speeds .  to illustrate the mergedlayer solution, calculations have been carried out for a sphereusing the incipient merged layer approximation .  results are presented for detachment distance, surface shear,and heat-transfer rate in the stagnation region of a highly cooledsphere flying at hypersonic speed .  with decreasing reynoldsnumber, the shear and heat transfer are shown to increase abovethe extrapolated boundary-layer values in the viscous layerregime and then to begin falling in the incipient merged regime .as the reynolds number decreases in the incipient mergedregime, the density in the shock layer increases, and the staticand stagnation enthalpy behind the shock decrease .  calculations performed for an insulated sphere show that, withdecreasing reynolds number in the incipient merged regime,the density in the shock layer decreases,. the total enthalpybehind the shock and at the stagnation point increase so that theyare higher than the free-stream total enthalpy,. and thestagnation-point pressure behaves like the total enthalpy .  for the highly cooled cylinder in the viscous layer regime, thesame quantities are presented as for the sphere .  the increasefound in shear and heat transfer above extrapolatedboundary-layer theory is small, in agreement with vorticity interactiontheory .  a discussion is given of the behavior of available experimentaldata for viscous flow quantities in the intermediate regime andthe behavior predicted by the results of the present calculations .qualitative agreement is indicated .