some experimental techniques in mass transfer cooling ..Aleadon,b.m..Baero/space eng. 18, 1959..Wsome experimental techniques in mass transfer cooling .  author introduces his survey by a brief review of the history ofinvestigations dealing with boundary layers on impermeable solidsurfaces, and notes that no true theory exists for turbulentboundary layers, the success of studies in this area having been due tothe introduction of artificial, if ingenious, assumptions whichpermitted empirical correlations fd data .  the terminology introducedby the author for distinguishing the different situations involvingmass transfer from the wall to the stream may give rise to someobjections .  for instance, /film cooling/ need not refer only tothe injection of a liquid, since applications involving gas filmcooling exist .  also, his restriction of the term /transpirationcooling/ to refer to the injection through a porous surface of a gasonly of the same composition as the exterior stream does not enjoyuniversal usage .  the influence of mass transfer on heat transferthrough laminar boundary layers and on the transition from laminarto turbulent flow is described, with consideration given to thequestion of the net effect of the stabilizing influence of surfacecooling and the destabilizing influence of injection .  reviewer suggests that author's inaccurate statement to theeffect that /thus far the higher energy conditions do not threatento involve turbulent injection, so turbulent boundary-layer researchenjoys a fairly academic serenity broken only by its ownfrustrations/ be excused on grounds of poetic license, although itignores the efforts being devoted to the pressing practical problemsof erosive burning of solid propellants (possibly the most commonexample of a complete /aerothermochemical/ problem involvingdistributed surface heat and mass transfer with chemical reactionin a flow system) and of effusion cooling of rocket nozzles, bothof which involve turbulent boundary-layer conditions .  authoremphasizes the tedious experimental problems involved in researchon boundary layers with blowing, and notes the desirability ofvelocity distribution measurements, especially in turbulent injectionlayers .  the observation that no good data on concentrationprofiles in the case of the diffusion boundary layer have beenpublished may be an overstatement, since author's bibliographyoverlooks the work of j. berger (/contribution a l'etude de l'injectionparietale,/ doctor's thesis, university of paris, memorial despoudres 38 (annex), p. 1,. paris, imprimerie nationale, 1956) .