a method for analysing the insulating properties ofthe laminar compressible boundary layer ..Alibby,pa. and pallone,a..Bj. ae. scs. 21, 1954..Wa method for analysing the insulating properties ofthe laminar compressible boundary layer .  in some cooling problems associated with high energy flowsit may be convenient to localize strongly the cooling, as forexample by injecting a coolant through an upstream porous strip,and to depend on the insulating properties of the boundary layerto reduce, or to eliminate completely the need for further coolingon the surface downstream of the highly cooled section .  thisupstream cooling technique may be of interest in connection withoptical windows in hypersonic wind tunnels, and on radomes,wings, and bodies of high-speed aircraft and missiles .  in this paper a method for investigating the insulatingproperties of a laminar compressible boundary layer on a two-dimensional surface with zero heat transfer is presented .  the physicalsituation considered thus corresponds to the case in which theheat transfer downstream of the strongly cooled section iscompletely eliminated .  of practical concern is how thetemperature of the uncooled surface varies in the downstream directionfrom its low initial value and thus how the low energy layerestablished by the upstream cooling insulates the downstreamsurface .  the karman integral method extended to both the momentumand energy partial differential equations of the boundary layerhas been used .  the station, at which cooling and or injectionceases, corresponds to a discontinuity in boundary conditionsand thus in solutions .  at this point the flux of mass, momentum,and energy within the boundary layer has been made continuousby the introduction of three additional parameters in the velocityand stagnation enthalpy profiles .  thus the velocity andstagnation enthalpy profiles have both been taken as sixth degreepolynomials .  the resulting two integral-differential equationsare then solved for two unknown functions of the distance alongthe wall .  these two functions are related to the boundary-layerthickness and to the wall temperature .  initial conditionscorresponding to a given initial wall temperature and an initialboundary-layer thickness are prescribed .  exact closed-form solutionsfor the case of zero axial pressure gradient are obtained .  forflows with significant pressure gradients, numerical solutionsare required in general .  several numerical examples of practicalinterest are presented .