the generalized expansion method and its applicationto bodies travelling at high supersonic airspeeds ..Aeggers,a.j., savin,r.c. and syvertson,c.a..Bj.ae.scs. 22, 1955, 231..Wthe generalized expansion method and its applicationto bodies travelling at high supersonic airspeeds .  it is demonstrated that the shock-expansion method can begeneralized to treat a large class of hypersonic flows, only one ofwhich is flow about airfoils .  this generalized method predictsthe whole flow field, including shock-wave curvatures andresulting vorticity, providing that (1) disturbances originating onthe surface of an object are largely absorbed in shock waves withwhich they interact and (2) disturbances associated with thedivergence of stream lines in tangent planes to the surface are ofsecondary importance compared to those associated with thecurvature of stream lines in planes normal to the surface .  it isshown that these conditions may be met in three-dimensional aswell as two-dimensional hypersonic flows .  when they are met,surface streamlines may be taken as geodesics, which, in turn,may be related to the geometry of the surface .  the validity of the generalized shock-expansion method forthree-dimensional hypersonic flows is checked by comparingpredictions of theory with experiment for the surface pressures andbow shock waves of bodies of revolution .  the bodies treatedare two ogives having fineness ratios of 3 and 5 .  tests wereconducted at mach numbers from 2.7 to 6.3 and angles of attack upto 15 degrees in the 10- by 14-in. supersonic wind tunnel of theames aeronautical laboratory .  at the lower angles of attack,theory and experiment approach agreement when the ratio ofmach number to fineness ratio--that is, the hypersonicsimilarity parameter--exceeds 1 .  at the larger angles of attack, theorytends to break down, as would be expected, on the leeward sidesof the bodies .  as a final point, it is inquired if the two-dimensionality ofinviscid hypersonic flows has any counterpart in hypersonicboundary-layer flows .  the question is answered in theaffirmative, and results of experiment are employed to provide a partialcheck of this conclusion .