inviscid hypersonic airflows with coupled non-equilibriumprocesses ..Ahall,j.g., eschenroeder,a.w. and marrone,p.v..Bias paper 62-67, 1962..Winviscid hypersonic airflows with coupled non-equilibriumprocesses .  analyses have been made of the effects of coupled chemical rateprocesses in external inviscid hypersonic airflows at high enthalpylevels .  exact (numerical) solutions have been obtained by theinverse method for inviscid airflow over a near-spherical noseunder flight conditions where substantial nonequilibrium prevailsthrough the nose region .  typical conditions considered includenose radii of the order of 1 ft at an altitude of 250,000 ft andvelocities of 15,000 and 23,000 ft per sec .  the results illustrate the general importance of the couplingamong the reactions considered .  these includeddissociation-recombination, bimolecular-exchange, and ionization reactions .the exact solutions show the bimolecular, no exchange reactionsto be important in blunt-nose flow for the kinetics of no and n,as they are in the case of a plane shock wave .  an importantdifference between blunt-nose flow and plane shock flow,however, is the gasdynamic expansion in the curved shock layer of theformer .  this expansion reduces post-shock reaction rates .  as aconsequence, in the regime studied the oxygen and nitrogen-atomconcentrations tend to freeze in the nose region at levels belowthose for infinite-rate equilibrium .  the reduction below theequilibrium dissociation level can be large, particularly fornitrogen dissociation at higher velocities .  in the regime considered, the chemical kinetics are dominatedby two-body collision processes .  the inviscid nose flow,including coupled nonequilibrium phenomena, is thus amenable tobinary scaling for a given velocity .  the binary scaling isdemonstrated for a range of altitude and scale by correlation of theexact solutions for given velocity and a constant product ofambient density and nose radius .  this similitude, which canalso scale viscous nonequilibrium and radiation phenomena in theshock layer, provides a useful flexibility for hypersonic testingwhere it is applicable .  the afterbody inviscid-flow problem is briefly discussed in thelight of the results for the nose flow .