on the stability of two dimensional parallel flows ..Alin,c.c..Bpt.iii - stability in a viscous fluid. q. app. math. 3, 1945, 273..Won the stability of two dimensional parallel flows .  this is the last part of the author's theory of the stabilityof plane laminar motion .  (for parts 1 and 2, cf. the samequart. 3, 117-142, 218-234 (1945),. these rev. 7,225,226 .)the stability character of a viscous fluid is considered indetail .  the author proceeds first to give a proof of a criterionof stability due to heisenberg ..  if a velocity profile has annumber and phase velocity, the disturbance with the samewave number is unstable in the real fluid when the reynoldsnumber is sufficiently large .  this destabilizing effect ofviscosity is one of the most interesting phenomena in thegeneral stability theory,. its physical and mathematicalsignificance is carefully discussed .  the author then discusses the behavior of the so-calledneutral curve for the two characteristic types ofvelocity distribution, the boundary layer type profile andthe symmetrical profile .  the asymptotic behavior of theneutral curve is discussed first .  the main difference betweenprofiles with and without a point of inflection is that the twobranches of the neutral curve approach and forprofiles with a flex, but both converge to for the profilewithout a flex .  the most important results are as follows .for sufficiently large reynolds number r .  (2) there alwaysexists a minimum r below which the motion is stable .  asimilar result was obtained by synge from energyconsiderations .  synge found a limiting curve below which themotion is necessarily stable .  the author's discussion of theasymptotic behavior of the curves shows furtherthat there always exists a maximum value of a beyondwhich the motion is stable for all reynolds numbers .  hencethe qualitative shape of the curve is determined .  the author proceeds to show that simple approximateexpressions for the stability limit can be obtained from hisgeneral analysis for a given velocity profile .  theseapproximate stability limits for plane poiseuille flow and blasiusflow are found to be r=5906 and r=502 .  the reynoldsnumbers are based on the width of the channel and thedisplacement thickness, respectively .  finally, the methodfor computing the complete instability curve is presentedand the plane poiseuille case and the blasius problem workedout in detail .  the stability limit for blasius flow had beengiven before by tollmien and schlichting .  the present moreexact computations agree well with tollmien's result as faras the minimum critical reynolds number is concerned .the value found here is r=420 .  the neutral curve forpoiseuille motion had not been obtained before .  theminimum critical number here is found to be r=5314 .  theagreement with the estimate from the simple criterionmentioned above is thus very good .  a discussion of the physical significance of the viscouseffects and of future developments concludes the paper .