an experimental investigation of the flow over blunt-nosedcones at a mach number of 5. 8..Amachell,r.m. and o'bryant,w.t..Bguggenheim aero. lab. memo 32, 1956..Wan experimental investigation of the flow over blunt-nosedcones at a mach number of 5. 8.  shock shapes were observed and static pressures were measuredon spherically-blunted cones at a nominal mach number of 5.8 over arange of reynolds numbers per inch from 97,000 to 238,000, for anglesof yaw from 0 to 8 .  six combinations of the bluntness ratios 0.4, 0.8,and 1.064 with the cone half angles 10, 20, and 40 were used indetermining the significant parameters governing pressure distribution .  the pressure distribution on the spherical nose for both yawedand unyawed bodies is predicted quite accurately by the modifiednewtonian theory given by, where is the angle between thenormal to a surface element and the flow direction ahead of the bowshock .  cone half angle was found to be the significant parameter indetermining the pressure distribution near the nose-cone junction andover the conical afterbody .  on the 40 spherical nosed cone modelsthe flow overexpanded with respect to the taylor-maccoll pressure inthe region of the spherical-conical juncture, after which the pressurereturned rapidly to the taylor-maccoll value .  for models with smallercone angles the region of minimum pressure occurred farther back onthe conical portion of the model, and the taylor-maccoll pressure wasapproached more gradually .  the shape of the pressure distributionsas described in nondimensional coordinates was independent of theradius of the spherical nose and of the reynolds number over the rangeof reynolds number per inch between .97 x 10 and 2.38 x 10 .  integrated results for the pressure foredrag of the models at zeroyaw compared very closely with the predictions of the modified newtonianapproximation, except for models with large cone angles and small noseradii, where the drag approaches the value given by the taylor-maccolltheory for sharp cones .