application of two dimensional vortex theory to theprediction of flow fields behind wings of wing-bodycombinations at subsonic and supersonic speeds ..Arogers,a.w..Bnaca tn.3227, 1954..Wapplication of two dimensional vortex theory to theprediction of flow fields behind wings of wing-bodycombinations at subsonic and supersonic speeds .  a theoretical investigation has been made of a general method forpredicting the flow field behind the wings of plane and cruciform wingand body combinations at transonic or supersonic speeds and slenderconfigurations at subsonic speeds .  the wing trailing-vortex wake isrepresented initially by line vortices distributed to approximate thespanwise distribution of circulation along the trailing edge of theexposed wing panels .  the afterbody is represented by correspondingimage vortices within the body .  two-dimensional line-vortex theory isthen used to compute the induced velocities at each vortex and theresulting displacement of each vortex is determined by means of anumerical stepwise integration procedure .  the method was applied to thecalculation of the position of the vortex wake and the estimation ofdownwash at chosen tail locations behind triangular-wing andcylindrical-body combinations at supersonic speeds .  the effects ofsuch geometric parameters as aspect ratio, angle of attack andincidence, ratio of body radius to wing semi-span, and angle of bank onthe vortex wake behind wings of wing-body combinations were studied .the relative importance of wing vortices, the corresponding imagevortices within the body, and body crossflow indetermining the the totaldownwash was assessed at a possible tail location .  it was found that the line-vortex method of this report permittedthe calculation of vortex paths behind wings of wing-body combinationswith reasonable facility and accuracy .  a calculated sample wake shapeagreed qualitatively with one observed experimentally, and sampleresults of the line-vortex method compared well with an available exactcrossflow-plane solution .  an empirical formula was derived to estimatethe number  of vortices required per wing panel for a satisfactorycomputation of downwash at tail locations .  it was found that the shapeof the vortex wake and the ultimate number of rolled-up vortices behinda wing depend on the circulation distribution along the wing trailingedge .  for the low-aspect-ratio plane wing and body combinationsconsidered, it appeared that downwash at horizontal tail locations islargely determined except near the tail-body juncture by the wingvortices alone for small ratios of body radius to wing semispan, and bythe body upwash alone for large values of that ratio .