symmetric joukowsky airfoils in shear flow ..Atsien,h.s..Bq. app. math. 1, 1943, 130..Wsymmetric joukowsky airfoils in shear flow .  the velocity components of the fluid far from the airfoilare given by where c is the chord ofthe airfoil, and k are constants, u and v are velocitycomponents in the directions of the coordinates x and y .the solution is sought in the form of the stream functionand satisfies laplace's equation .  a general expression forfor vanishing disturbance velocities at points far fromthe origin is written, and the flows due to a source, a vortexand a solid circular cylinder in shear flow are consideredas examples .  typical streamline patterns are shown forthese cases .  from the eulerian equations of motion theauthor obtains the expression for in terms of theparameter and derivatives of .  the general formof is introduced and the appropriate solution for thepressure p is obtained .  by integration around a contourenclosing the body, expressions are obtained, analogous tothe blasius formulae, for the force and couple on anycylinder in this type of flow .  these formulae are applied tothe case of a symmetrical joukowsky airfoil .  the method ofconformal transformation is employed in the determinationof .  the boundary condition of tangential flow at theairfoil surface must be satisfied by the total flow in the airfoilplane, but this condition leads to a boundary condition forin the transformed plane .  the kutta-joukowskycondition of finite velocity at the trailing edge also leads to acondition on in this plane .  from these conditions and thegeneral expression for the circulation and the strengthsof the doublets and quadruplets required for the force andmoment are determined .  hence, the formulae for lift andmoment coefficient are obtained .  these involve, in additionto the usual (potential-flow) terms, terms proportional to .  the ten functions that appear in the expressions for thelift and moment coefficients are tabulated for values of thethickness ratio between 0 and 1 .  the aerodynamic-centerposition and the coefficient of the moment about theaerodynamic center are also calculated and are presentedgraphically as functions of .