temperature and velocity profiles in the compressiblelaminar boundary layer with arbitrary distributionof surface temperature ..Achapman,d. and rubesin,m..Bj. ae. scs. 16, 1949, 547..Wtemperature and velocity profiles in the compressiblelaminar boundary layer with arbitrary distributionof surface temperature .  an analysis is presented which enables the temperatureprofiles, veiocity profiles, heat transfer, and skin friction to becalculated for laminar flow over a two-dimensional or axiallysymmetric surface without pressure gradient but with an arbitraryanalytic distribution of surface temperature .  the general theory isapplicable to a gas of any prandtl number, although thenumerical results given herein have been computed for air .the predictions of the theory for the special case of constantsurface temperature are compared with the calculations of crocco .on the basis of this comparison, it is inferred that the presenttheory enables heat-transfer and skin-friction calculationsaccurate to within about 5 per cent to be made for flight conditionsup to mach numbers near 5 and to within about 1 or 2 per centfor supersonic wind-tunnel conditions up to considerably highermach numbers .  a particular effort has been made to present the results, whichare simple considering their generality, in a form that can be usedreadily in practical applications .  from the mathematical pointof view, the theory is applicable to an arbitrary analyticdistribution of surface temperature, but in any given practical case it isnecessary that the surface-temperature distribution beapproximated by a polynomial .  the only unknowns in the finalequations developed are the coefficients of this polynomial, so that thework involved in applying the theory in any given case dependsentirely on the work involved in approximating a given surface-temperature distribution by a polynomial .  an example is worked out in detail which illustrates some of theprincipal effects of variable surface temperature .  it is shownthat both positively infinite and negatively infinite heat-transfercoefficients can occur .  the anomaly of infinite and negativeheat-transfer coefficients is discussed and attributed to thecustomary definition of the heat-transfer coefficient, which is shownto be fundamentally inappropriate for flows with variable surfacetemperature .  in the particular example considered, aconventional method for calculating the net heat transferred yieldscompletely incorrect results .  a brief qualitative discussion of thepossible effects of the heat transfer on flow separation is given .in order to facilitate the use of the results, all of the principalequations developed are collected and summarized in the sectionentitled /practical use of results ./