a closed-form solution for the oscillations of a vehicleentering a planetary atmosphere ..Agreensite,a.l..Bj. ae. scs. 29, 1962, 745..Wa closed-form solution for the oscillations of a vehicleentering a planetary atmosphere .  author considers the equation of the yawing motion of a missile,derived with a series of customary assumptions and with thedistance traveled as the independent variable .  his assumptionsinclude the linearity of the aerodynamic forces, the constancy of theaerodynamic coefficients with respect to mach number, theabsence of spin, and the absence of gravity .  if to these assumptionsone could add the common ballistic assumption of a constant airdensity, the coefficients of this equation would have beencon-damped sinusoids .  in ballistics any slow variation of thesecoefstant, and the solution would have been simply theexponentially-ficients is usually treated by adding an approximate correctionterm to the damping rate (which is spoken of as the wkbperturbation) .  however, with a body entering the planetary atmosphere thevariation of the air density is apparently of greater essence (thisis a point not stated explicitly in this brief communication), andthe equation is of the type .the author shows that with a series of further transformationsthe equation can be reduced to the formthe solutions of which are confluenthypergeometric functions .  these functions are defined as seriesinvolving gamma functions, and with a series of further assumptionscan be reduced to laguerre polynomials and bessel functions .  it is certainly nice to have an exact solution to a problem whichhas heretofore been extensively treated by approximations and bythe numerical approach .  this reviewer is puzzled, however, as tothe practical significance of the proposed approach .  anidealization is of value in that it facilitates our understanding,. and thenumerical approach, in that it allows refinements of the problem,freeing us from the necessity of idealizing .  but the proposedsolution is certainly more difficult to refine than the originalproblem,. and it is certainly not simple (the solution of the originalequation is not the value of z, but the various /reverse/transformations of z) .  an evaluation of a series in practice must competewith the numerical approach,. and the equation suggested is of thezero) .  viewing the problem /afresh/ (in the light of the /computer revolution/ and without the constraints imposed by the priorart), it seems at least equally easy to /standardize/ thesolutions of the original equation .