laminar, transitional and turbulent heat transfer toa cone-cylinder-flare body at mach 8. 0..Azakkay,v. and callahan,c.j..Bj. ae. scs. 29, 1962, 1403..Wlaminar, transitional and turbulent heat transfer toa cone-cylinder-flare body at mach 8. 0.  an experimental investigation of the laminar, transitional, andturbulent heat transfer rates over a conical cylindrical flaredbody is presented .  regions of favorable, zero, and adversepressure gradient on the body are investigated .  the experimentalresults are compared with the theories available in the literature .  the model chosen for this investigation is a cone-cylinder-flareconfiguration consisting of a 20 semivertex conical nose portionsmoothly blended by a shoulder radius into a long cylindrical bodyand terminated by a smooth large radius flare .  the model was tested at a free stream mach number of 8, overa range of reynolds number from 0.3 x 10 to 1.6 x 10 per inchbased on free stream conditions .  various stagnation-to-walltemperature ratios were obtained by cooling the model prior tothe test with liquid nitrogen .  the stagnation-to-walltemperature ratios were 10 and 3.3 .  the theoretical predictions gave good results for the heattransfer rates in the laminar region, and fair prediction in thetransitional and turbulent regimes extending over the shoulderand forward portion of the cylindrical body .  over the aft portionof the cylinder and over the flare the predictions are onlyqualitatively correct, and underestimate the heating rate by a factor ashigh as 3 .  conversely, the /flat plate reference enthalpy/over the aft portion of the body, but to increasingly overestimatethe heating rates over the forward portion of the cylinder .  a modified equation for the heat transfer coefficient in thetransitional and fully turbulent region based on the f.p.r.e.method is then presented .  this method gives good agreementwith the experimental results presented over the entire range oftransitional and turbulent flow .  from the results the following is concluded ..  cooling the walldelayed transition .  by expanding the flow rapidly between thecone and the cylinder, the transition reynolds number is reachedvery rapidly .  by making a smooth transition between thecylinder and the flare, no separation occurred at the cylindrical flarejunction .  the transitional and turbulent heat transfer in thepresence of an adverse pressure gradient may be predicted withsufficient accuracy by the f.p.r.e. method .