viscous and inviscid stagnation flow in a dissociated hypervelocity free stream ..Ainger, g.r..Bproc. 1962. heat transfer and fluid mech. inst ..Wviscous and inviscid stagnation flow in a dissociated hypervelocity free stream .high reynolds number hypersonic stagnation flow over a blunt-nosed bodyin a nonequilibrium dissociated free stream is analyzed and compared toa similar flow in an initially undissociated ambient gas . free streamdissociation effects on various equilibrium stagnation flow propertiesin air are presented as a function of the ambient atom mass fraction and dissociation energy for velocities ranging from 15,000 to 25,000 fps .significant changes in the bow shock geometry, stagnation gas state, and boundary layer behavior are found when the free stream dissociationinvolves more than 10( of the total energy . it is observed that forlarge amounts of both atomic oxygen and nitrogen ahead of the body, theequilibrium shock layer properties converge toward those pertaining tochemically and vibrationally-frozen flow across the bow shock .moreover, under certain conditions, the ionization level can be increased by an order of magnitude and the usual reduction in frozen boundary layerheat transfer due to a highly-cooled noncatalytic surface can increasefrom stall of adjacent stages .the effects of compromises of stage matching to favor part-speedoperation were also considered . this phase of the study indicated thatsuch compromises would severely reduce the complete-compressor-stallmargin . furthermore, the low-speed stage stall problem is transferredfrom the inlet stages to the middle stages, which are more susceptibleto abrupt-stall characteristics .the analysis indicates that inlet stages having continuous performancecharacteristics at their stall points are desirable with respect topart-speed compressor performance . these characteristics must, however, be obtained when the stages are operating in the flow environment ofthe multistage compressor . alleviation of part-speed operationalproblems may also be obtained by improvement in either stage flow range orstage loading margin .the results of this analysis are only qualitative . the trends obtained, however, are in agreement with those obtained from experimental studies of high-pressure-ratio multistage axial-flow compressors, and theresults are valuable in developing an understanding of the off-designproblem . in addition to these stage-matching studies, a generaldiscussion of variable-geometry features such as air bleed and adjustable gas model . numerical solutions of non-equilibrium airflows with fullycoupled chemistry provide a preliminary verification of such scaling forbenser, w.a..Wlimit characteristics . the analysis indicated that all these problemscould be attributed to discontinuities in the performancecharacteristics of the front stages . such discontinuities can be due to the type of stage stall or to a deterioration of stage performance resultingblades is included .