compressor operation with one or more blade rows stalled ..A.Bnaca rm e56b03b, 1956 . chapter xiii.Wcompressor operation with one or more blade rows stalled .an analysis of the part-speed operating problems of high-pressure-ratioratio multistage axial-flow compressors was made by means of asimplified stage-stacking study .  the principal problems consideredwere poor low-speed efficiency, multiple-valued performancecharacteristics at intermediate speeds, and poor intermediate-speed compressorsurge or stall-limit characteristics . the analysis indicated that allthese problems could be attributed to discontinuities in the performancecharacteristics of the front stages . such discontinuities can be dueto the type of stage stall or to a deterioration of stage performanceresulting from stall of adjacent stages .  the effects of compromises of stage matching to favor part-speedoperation were also considered . this phase of the study indicated that suchcompromises would severly reduce the complete-compressor-stall margin .furthermore, the low-speed stage stall problem is transferred from theinlet stages to the middle stages, which are more susceptible toabrupt-stall characteristics .  the analysis indicates that inlet stages having continuous performancecharacteristics at their stall points are desirable with respect topart-speed compressor performance . these characteristics must, however,be obtained when the stages are operating in the flow environment of themultistage compressor . alleviation of part-speed operation problems mayalso be obtained by improvement in either stage flow range or stage-loading margin .  the results of this analysis are only qualitative . the trendsobtained, however, are in agreement with those obtained from experimentalstudies of high-pressure-ratio multistage axial-flow compressors, andthe results are valuable in developing an understanding of theoff-design problem . in addition to these stage-matching studies, a generaldiscussion of variable-geometry features such as air bleed andadjustable blades is included .