similar solutions for the compressible laminar boundarylayer with heat transfer and pressure gradient ..Acohen,c.b. and reshotko,e..Bnaca tn.3325, 1955..Wsimilar solutions for the compressible laminar boundarylayer with heat transfer and pressure gradient .  stewartson's transformation is applied to the laminar compressibleboundary-layer equations and therequirement of similarity is introduced,resulting in a set of ordinary nonlinear differential equationspreviously quoted by stewartson, but unsolved .  the requirements of thesystem are ..  prandtl number of 1.0, linear viscosity-temperaturerelation across the boundary layer, anisothermal surface, and the particulardistributions of free-stream velocityconsistent with similar solutions .this system admits axial pressuregradients of arbitrary magnitude, heatflux normal to the surface, and arbitrary mach numbers .  the system of differential equations is transformed to an integralsystem, with the velocity ratio asthe independent variable .  for thissystem, solutions are found for pressure gradients varying from thatcausing separation to the infinitely favorable gradient and for walltemperatures from absolute zero to twice the free-stream stagnationtemperature .  some solutions for separated flows are also presented .  for favorable pressure gradients, the solutions are unique .  foradverse pressure gradients, where the solutions are not unique, twosolutions of the infinite family of possible solutions are identified asessentially viscid at the outer edge of the boundary layer and theremainder essentially inviscid .  forthe case of favorable pressure gradientswith heated walls, the velocity withina portion of the boundary layer isshown to exceed the local external velocity .the variation of a reynoldsanalogy parameter, which indicates the ratio of skin friction to heattransfer, is from zero to 7.4 for a surface of temperature twice thefree-stream stagnation temperature, and from zero to 2.8 for a surfaceheld at absolute zero where the value 2 applies to a flat plate .