viscous and inviscid nonequilibrium gas flows ..Awhalen,r.j..Bj. ae. scs. 29, 1962, 1222..Wviscous and inviscid nonequilibrium gas flows .  the condition of immediate freezing of the mass fraction ofdissociated species of air at the equilibrium value behind theshock envelope prevails over a major portion of the flightspectrum associated with lifting re-entry vehicles .  this is observedby means of order-of-magnitude considerations within the limitsof the present knowledge of chemical reaction rates for theconstituents of air .  accordingly, investigations of the viscous andinviscid hypersonic flow about blunt and sharp leading edgeslender bodies are made .  the investigations are generalized toconsider an arbitrary degree of dissociation in the ambient freestream .  this condition is included in order to allow comparisonwith the flow field about a model in the test section of ahypersonic facility with dissociated air species present in the freestream .  inviscid frozen flow investigations are made for blunt andsharp leading edge slender body power-law geometries .  theresults indicate that the influence of a finite leading edge, ininducing a pressure field far downstream (/blast-wave/ analogy),is considerably diminished for this model .  this conclusion isverified numerically by a characteristics solution for thehypersonic flow about a /sonic-wedge/ slab .  the viscous investigations consider the boundary-layerinteraction problem with a frozen degree of dissociation .  inthis case, as in the inviscid analysis, the governing parameter isobserved to be the ratio of thedissociation energy to the free-stream kinetic energy .  theinfluence of this parameter on the boundary-layer interactionmechanism for a highly cooled, noncatalytic wall is presented .the influence of a frozen flow field on skin friction and heattransfer is also discussed .  finally, since higher mach number gas flows may be generatedin wind tunnel nozzles where dissociation nonequilibrium effectsare present, the possibility of employing expansions with acontrolled degree of dissociation as a technique for aerodynamicsimulation is presented .