the design of structures to resist jet noise fatigue ..Ab. l. clarkson.Bj. royal aero. soc. 66, oct. 1962.Wthe design of structures to resist jet noise fatigue .the design of structures to resist jet noise fatigue demands aknowledge of a wide range of subjects from pure acoustics at onehand to metal physics at the other . at the present time the variousaspects of the problem are not sufficiently well knowquantitatively for a purely theoretical design study to be made . never-the-less a knowledge of the behaviour of typical forms ofconstruction in noise environments can be used with a limitedamount of theoretical work to indicate tne most efficient types ofstructure . this approach to the problem is adopted in thislecture as it seems to be the most promising one available at themoment . it must be emphasized, however, that although someprogress has been made in dicsovering the behaviour of astructure subjected to noise it is not possible to estimate the lifeof any component at the drawing board stage . some prototypestrain measurements and proof testing are therefore essential ifone is to prove the integrity of the design .     within the structural limits of single skin construction set inthis lecture the main conclusion to be reached is that noreasonable estimate of fatigue life can yet be made in the drawingboard stage of a structure . nevertheless, a study of the form ofbehaviour of typical structures has led to a theoreticalsimplification of the problem of skin vibration . from this it has beenpossible to suggest an optimum deisgn for a skin stiffened bystringers . a suggestion for an optimum design of skin and ribfor control surfaces to minimise stresses at the rib-skinintersection is put forward but no experience can check this yet .     the most resonable basis for the future estimation offatigue life of a component appears to be the /random/ s-ncurve and consierable effort should be made to obtain thenecessary test data .     the life expectation of a new design will be uncertain andsome proof testing is essential if the integrity of structure in highnoise levels (150 db) is to be guaranteed .