theoretical and experimental investigation ofaerodynamic-heating and isothermal heat transfer parameters ona hemisphere nose with laminar boundary layer at supersonicmach numbers ..Astine,h.a. and wanlass,k..Bnaca tn.3344, 1954..Wtheoretical and experimental investigation ofaerodynamic-heating and isothermal heat transfer parameters ona hemisphere nose with laminar boundary layer at supersonicmach numbers .  the effect of a strong, negativepressure gradient upon the localrate of heat transfer through a laminarboundary layer on the isothermalsurface of an electrically heated,cylindrical body of revolution with ahemispherical nose was determined fromwind-tunnel tests at a mach numberof 1.97 .  the investigation indicatedthat the local heat-transferparameter, based on flow conditionsjust outside the boundary layer,decreased from a value of 0.65 0.10 atthe stagnation point of thehemisphere to a value  of 0.43 0.05 at thejunction with the cylindricalafterbody .  because measurements of thestatic pressure distribution overthe hemisphere indicated that the localflow pattern tended to becomestationary as the free-stream mach numberwas increased to 3.8, thisdistribution of heat-transfer parameter isbelieved representative of allmach numbers greater than 1.97 and oftemperatures less than that ofdissociation .  the local heat-transferparameter was independent of reynoldsnumber based on body diameter in therange from 0.6x10 to 2.3x10 .  the measured distribution ofheat-transfer parameter agreed withintheoretical distribution calculated withforeknowledge only of the pressuredistribution about the body .  thismethod, applicable to any body ofrevolution with an isothermal surface,combines the mangler transformation,stewartson transformation, and thermalsolutions to the falkner-skan wedge-flowproblem, and thus evaluates theheat-transfer rate in axisymmetriccompressible flow in terms of the knownheat-transfer rate in an approximatelyequivalent two-dimensionalincompressible flow .  measurements of recovery-temperaturedistributions at mach numbersof 1.97 and 3.04 yielded local recoveryfactors having an average valueof 0.823 0.012 on the hemisphere whichincreased abruptly at the shoulderto an average value of 0.840 0.012 onthe cylindrical afterbody .  thisresult suggests that the usual representationof the laminar recoveryfactor as the square root of the prandtlnumber is conservative in thepresence of a strong, accelerating pressure gradient .