investigation of full scale split trailing edge wingflaps with various chords and hinge locations ..Awallace,r..Bnaca r.539, 1935..Winvestigation of full scale split trailing edge wingflaps with various chords and hinge locations .  an investigation was conducted in the n. a. c. a.full-scale wind tunnel on a small parasol monoplaneequipped with three different split trailing-edge wingflaps .  the object of the investigation was to determineand correlate data on the characteristics of the airplaneand flaps as affected by variation in flap chord, flapdeflection, and flap location along the wing chord .  thechords of the flaps were 10, 20, and 30 percent of thewing chord and each flap was tested at deflections from 0to 75 when located successively at 68, 80, and 88.8percent of the wing chord aft of the leading edge .  theinvestigation included force tests, pressure-distributiontests, and downwash surveys .  the results give the lift,the drag, and the pitching-moment characteristics of theairplane, the flap forces and moments, the pressuredistribution over the flaps and wing at one section,and the downwash characteristics of the flap and wingcombinations .  an increase in flap chord or distance of the flap fromthe leading edge of the wing increased the lift of theairplane but had an adverse effect on the wing pitchingmoment .  the ld ratio of the airplane decreased withincrease in flap deflection or flap chord .  flapnormal-force coefficients were primarily a function of flapdeflection and were relatively independent of flap chord,hinge-axis location, and airplane attitude .  the location ofthe flap center of pressure in percentage of flap chord aft ofthe hinge axis remained practically constantirrespective of airplane attitude and of flap deflection, chord, orlocation .  flap hinge-moment coefficients varied with apower of flap chord greater than the square so that withregard to hinge moments narrow flaps were the mostefficient in producing a given increase in lift .  split trailing-edge flaps materially affected themagnitude and distribution of pressures over the entire wingprofile .  at low angles of attack the predominant effectof the flaps was to increase positively the lower-surfacepressures ,. at high angles of attack, to increase negativelythe upper-surface pressures .  downwash surveysindicated that horizontal tail planes located above the wingchord line would be more effective than those below thechord in counteracting the increased diving moment ofthe airplane with flaps deflected .