aerodynamic effects of some configuration variableson the aeroelastic characteristics of lifting surfacesat mach numbers from 0. 7 to 6. 86 ..Ahanson,p.w..Bnasa tn.d984, 1961..Waerodynamic effects of some configuration variableson the aeroelastic characteristics of lifting surfacesat mach numbers from 0. 7 to 6. 86 .  results of flutter tests onsome simple all-movable-control-typemodels are given .  one set of models,which had a square planform withdouble-wedge airfoils with fourdifferent values of leading- andtrailing-edge radii from 0 to 6 percent chordand airfoil thicknesses of 9, 11,at mach numbers from 0.7 to 6.86 .the bending-to-torsion frequencyratio was about 0.33 .  the other set ofmodels, which had a tapered planformwith single-wedge and double-wedgeairfoils with thicknesses of 3, 6, 9,and 12 percent chord, was testedat mach numbers from 0.7 to 3.98 anda frequency ratio of about 0.42 .  the tests indicate that, in general,increasing thickness has adestabilizing effect at the higher machnumbers but is stabilizing atsubsonic and transonic mach numbers .double-wedge airfoils are moreprone to flutter than single-wedgeairfoils at comparable stiffnesslevels .  increasing airfoil bluntnesshas a stabilizing effect on theflutter boundary at supersonic speedsbut has a negligible effect atsubsonic speeds .  however, increasingbluntness may also lead todivergence at supersonic speeds .  results of calculations usingsecond-order piston-theory aerodynamicsin conjunction with a coupled-modeanalysis and an uncoupled-mode analysisare compared with the experimentalresults for the sharp-edge airfoils atsupersonic speeds .  the uncoupled-modeanalysis more accurately predictedthe flutter characteristics of thetapered-planform models, whereas thecoupled-mode analysis was somewhatbetter for the square-planform models .for both the uncoupled- and coupled-modeanalyses, agreement with theexperimental results improved withincreasing mach number .  in general,both methods of analysis gave unconservativeresults with respect to theexperimental flutter boundaries .