some experiments relating to the problem of simulation of hot jetengines in studies of jet effects on adjacent surfaces at a free-streammach number of 1.80 ..Abressette, w.e..Bnaca rm l56e07. 1956 ..Wsome experiments relating to the problem of simulation of hot jetengines in studies of jet effects on adjacent surfaces at a free-streammach number of 1.80 .an investigation at a free-stream mach number of 1.80 in a blowdown type tunnel was made to study the effect on the pressure distribution of azero angle of attack wing surface when certain exhaust parameters of ahot turbojet engine are varied . static-pressure surveys were made on awing surface that was located in the vicinity of a small-scalepropulsive jet . this propulsive jet was operated with four types of jetexhausts . these jet exhausts were a hot jet /hydrogen burned in air/, a cold air jet, a cold helium jet, and a jet composed of a mixture of two cold gases /hydrogen and carbon dioxide/ . the hot jet, because of itshigh exhaust temperature /3,300degreer/ and because combustion wasperformed in air, was believed reasonably able to simulate the exhaustparameters of an actual afterburning turbojet engine . the cold jetsused were selected in order that the effects of a variation in theexhaust parameters of jet-exit static-pressure ratio, ratio of specificheats, density, and velocity, could be obtained by comparing each coldjet with the hot jet or with another cold jet . the tests were made over a range of jet-exit staticpressure ratios from 1 to 9 with values ofthe ratio of specific heats of 1.27, 1.40, and 1.66 and at variations in density and velocity of the order of approximately 8 and 3 times,respectively .within the scope of this investigation, it was found that jet-exitstatic-pressure ratio and the ratio of specific heats affected thepressure distribution on the wing associated with jet interference while a variation in exit velocity and density did not . the jet-exitstaticpressure ratio affected the wing pressure distribution in a majorway while the ratio of specific heats had only a minor effect . theaddition of temperature in the propulsive jet exhaust at a jet-exitstaticpressure ratio of 4 had little or no effect on the pressuredistribution associated with jet interference on the wing .