a systematic kernel function procedure for determining aerodynamicforces on oscillating or steady finite wings at subsonic speeds ..Awatkins, c.e., woolston, d.s. and cunningham, h.j.a..Bnasa tr r-48, 1959 ..Wa systematic kernel function procedure for determining aerodynamicforces on oscillating or steady finite wings at subsonic speeds .a detailed description is given of a method of approximating solutionsto the integral equation that relates oscillatory or steady lift anddownwash distributions on finite wings in subsonic flow . the method ofsolution is applicable to general plan forms with either curved orstraight leading and trailing edges . moreover, it is directlyapplicable to control surfaces such as all-movable tails but modificationsare needed to apply it to controls in general . applications of themethod involve evaluations of numerous integrals that must be handled by numerical procedures but systematic schemes of evaluations have beenadopted that are well suited to the routines of automatic digitalcomputing machines . these schemes of evaluation have been incorporated ina program for an ibm 704 electronic data processing machine . with thismachine, a pressure distribution together with such quantities assection or total lift and moment coefficients or generalized forces can bedetermined for a given value of frequency and mach number and forseveral /four or five/ modes of oscillation in about 4 minutes ofmachine time . in the case of steady downwash conditions correspondingquantities can be obtained in about 2 minutes of machine time .in order to illustrate applications of the method, results of severalcalculations are presented . in these illustrations total forces andmoments are compared /1/ with results of analytic procedures for acircular plan form with steady downwash conditions, /2/ with results ofother theories and with experiment for a rectangular plan form of aspect ratio 1 at a uniform angle of attack, and /3/ with some experimentalresults for a rectangular plan form of aspect ratio 2 undergoingpitching and flapping oscillations . also included in the illustrations areresults of flutter calculations compared with experimental results foran allmovable control surface of aspect ratio 3.50 and for acantilevered rectangular plan form of aspect ratio 5.04 .