low-speed longitudinal aerodynamic characteristics associated with aseries of low-aspect ratio wings having variations in leading-edgecontour ..Aspencer, b. and hammond, a.d..Bnasa tn d-1374, 1962 ..Wlow-speed longitudinal aerodynamic characteristics associated with aseries of low-aspect ratio wings having variations in leading-edgecontour .an investigation has been conducted at various reynolds numbers and lowsubsonic speeds to determine the longitudinal aerodynamiccharacteristics associated with a series of low-aspect-ratio wings havingvariations in leading-edge contours . the planforms included a highly swepttriangular wing, a rectangular wing, and intermediate wings includingplanforms having elliptic and parabolic leading-edge contours, allhaving an aspect ratio of 1.33 . the effects of changing aspect ratio for a given leading-edge contour were investigated for two of the wingspresented,. also included are the longitudinal characteristics associatedwith various fuselage sizes . an effort has been made to estimate thelift variation with angle of attack for the wing planforms of thepresent investigation .improvements in the lifting capabilities at low subsonic speedsassociated with a basic triangular planform of low aspect ratio are possibleby slight alterations in leading-edge design, which should still conform to possible design requirements at hypersonic speeds . these changes in planform resulted in increases in lift-curve slope, lift at high angles of attack, and in the maximum untrimmed lift-drag ratio, provided thefuselage was sufficiently small . the longitudinal stabilitycharacteristics of the majority of planforms indicate more desirable stabilitycharacteristics at high lifts than either a triangular wing orrectangular wing of the same aspect ratio . the effects of increasingreynolds number for each of the planforms investigated generally resultedin slight reductions in the lift at high angles of attack . a method ispresented for estimating the subsonic-lift variation with angle ofattack for the low-aspect-ratio wings of the present investigation andindicated good agreement with experimental data throughout theangle-of-attack range of this investigation .