near noise field of a jet engine exhaust ..Acallaghan,e.e., howes,w.l. coles,w.d. and mull,r.h..Bnaca r.1338..Wnear noise field of a jet engine exhaust .  aircraft structures located in the near noise field of a jetengine are subjected to extremely high fluctuating pressures thatmay cause structural fatigue .  studies of such structures havebeen limited by lack of knowledge of the loadings involved .  the acoustic near field produced by the exhaust of a stationaryturbojet engine having a high pressure ratio was measured fora single operating condition without afterburning .  themaximum over-all sound pressure without afterburning was foundto be about 42 pounds per square foot along the jet boundary inthe region immediately downstream of the jet-nozzle exit .with afterburning the maximum sound pressure was increasedby 50 percent .  the largest sound pressures withoutafterburning were obtained on a constant percentage band width basis inthe frequency range from 350 to 700 cps .  additional tests were made at a few points to find the effectof jet velocity on near-field sound pressures and to determinethe difference in value between sound-pressure levels at rigidsurfaces and corresponding free-field values .  near the jetnozzle, over-all sound pressures were found to vary as a lowpower (approx. unity) of the jet velocity .  over-all sound-pressurelevels considerably greater than the corresponding free-fieldlevels were recorded at the surface of a rigid plate placed alongthe jet boundary .  the downstream locations of the maximum sound pressureat any given frequency along the jet-engine-exhaust boundaryand the longitudinal turbulent-velocity maximum of the samefrequency along a small cold-air jet at 1 nozzle-exit radius fromthe jet axis were found to be nearly the same when compared ona dimensionless basis .  also, the strouhal number of thecorresponding spectra maximums was found to be nearly equal atsimilar distances downstream .  in addition to the magnitude and frequency distribution ofthe acoustic pressures, it is necessary to know the crosscorrelation of the pressure over the surface area .  cross-correlationmeasurements with microphones were made for a range of jetvelocities at locations along the jet and at a distance from thejet .  free-field correlations of the over-all sound pressure andof the sound pressure in frequency bands from 100 to 1000 cpswere obtained both longitudinally and laterally .  in addition,correlations were obtained with microphones mounted at thesurface of a rigid plate that was large compared with thedistance over which a positive correlation existed .  the region of positive correlation was generally found toincrease with distance downstream of the engine to 6.5nozzle-exit diameters, but remained nearly constant thereafter .  ingeneral, little change in the correlation curves was found as afunction of jet velocity or frequency-band width .  the distancefrom unity correlation to the first zero correlation was greater forlateral than for longitudinal correlations for the sameconditions and locations .  the correlation curves obtained in freespace and on the surface of the plate were generally similar .  the results are interpreted in terms of pressure loads onsurfaces .