investigation of the stability of the laminar boundarylayer in a compressible fluid ..Alees,l. and lin,c.c..Bnaca tn.1115, 1946..Winvestigation of the stability of the laminar boundarylayer in a compressible fluid .  in the present report the stability of two-dimensional laminarflows of a gas is investigated by the method of small perturbations .the chief emphasis is placed on the case of the laminar boundary layer .  part 1 of the present report deals with the general mathematicaltheory .  the general equations governing one normal mode of the smallvelocity and temperature disturbances are derived and studied in greatdetail .  it is found that for reynolds numbers of the order of thoseencountered in most aerodynamic problems, the temperature disturbanceshave only a negligible effect on those particular velocity solutionswhich depend primarily on the viscosity coefficient (/viscoussolutions/) .  indeed, the latter are actually of the same form in thecompressible fluid as in the incompressible fluid, at least to the firstapproximation .  because of this fact, the mathematical analysis isgreatly simplified .  the final equation determining the characteristicvalues of the stability problem depends on the /inviscid solutions/ andthe function of tietjens in a manner very similar to the case of theincompressible fluid .  the second viscosity coefficient and thecoefficient of heat conductivity do not enter the problem,. only theordinary coefficient of viscosity near the solid surface is involved .  part 2 deals with the limiting case of infinite reynolds numbers .the study of energy relations is very much emphasized .  it is shownthat the disturbance will gain energy from the main flow if the gradientof the product of mean density and mean vorticity near the solid surfacehas a sign opposite to that near the outer edge of the boundary layer .  a general stability criterion has been obtained in terms of thegradient of the product of density and vorticity, analogous to therayleigh-tollmien criterion for the case of an incompressible fluid .if this gradient vanishes for some value of the velocity ratio of themain flow exceeding 1-1/m (where m is the free stream mach number) .