the buckling of thin cylindrical shells under axialcompression ..Avon karman,t. and tsien,h.s..Bj. ae. scs. 8, 1941, 303..Wthe buckling of thin cylindrical shells under axialcompression .in two previous papers the authors have discussedin detail the inadequacy of the classical theory ofthin shells in explaining the buckling phenomenon ofcylindrical and spherical shells .  it was shown thatnot only the calculated buckling load is 3 to 5 timeshigher than that found by experiments, but theobserved wave pattern of the buckled shell is also differentfrom that predicted .  furthermore, it was pointedout that the different explanations for this discrepancyadvanced by l. h. donnell and w. flugge areuntenable when certain conclusions drawn from theseexplanations are compared with the experimental facts .by a theoretical investigation on spherical shells theauthors were led to the belief that in general thebuckling phenomenon of curved shells can only beexplained by means of a non-linear large deflection theory .this point of view was substantiated by modelexperiments on slender columns with non-linear elasticsupport .  the non-linear characteristics of such structurescause the load necessary to keep the shell inequilibrium to drop very rapidly with increase in waveamplitude once the structure started to buckle .  thus, firstof all, a part of the elastic energy stored in the shell isreleased once the buckling has started,. this explainsthe observed rapidity of the buckling process .furthermore, as it was shown in one of the previous papersthe buckling load itself can be materially reduced byslight imperfections in the test specimen and vibrationsduring the testing process .  in this paper, the same ideas are applied to the caseof a thin uniform cylindrical shell under axialcompression .  first it is shown by an approximatecalculation that again the load sustained by the shell dropswith increasing deflection .  then the results of thiscalculation are used for a more detailed discussion ofthe buckling process as observed in an actual testingmachine .