an investigation of the flow about a plane half-wingof cropped delta planform and 6( symmetrical sectionat stream mach numbers between 0. 8 and 1. 41 ..Arogers,e.w.e., hall,i.m. and berry,c.j..Barc r + m.3286, 1960..Wan investigation of the flow about a plane half-wingof cropped delta planform and 6( symmetrical sectionat stream mach numbers between 0. 8 and 1. 41 .  a study has been made of the flow developmentover the wing as the incidence and streammach number vary and this is illustrated by surface pressuredistributions and oil-flow patterns .  the growthand movement of the two main surface shocks (the rear andforward shocks) is discussed, and conditions forflow separation through these shocks are considered .  forthe rear shock, which has little sweep, theseconditions are similar to those for shock-induced separationon two-dimensional aerofoils .  the forwardshock is comparatively highly swept and separation seemsto correspond to two rather different butsimultaneously-attained conditions, one related to thecomponent mach number normal to the shock frontand the other to the position of the reattachment line .  the flow in the region between the leading edge andthe forward shock is shown to have certain characteristicsanalogous to those found upstream of the shock ontwo-dimensional aerofoils .  to the rear of the forwardshock, but ahead of the rear shock, the flow at lowsupersonic speeds resembles in some respects that abouta simple cone .  the general flow development is related in thetext to the wing lift and pitching moment, and the drag .the first two are most affected by the aft movementof the rear shock, which also stimulates the transonicdrag rise .  the lift-dependent drag is shown to beinfluenced by the appearance of leading-edge separationand possibly also by some stage in the developmentof the forward shock .  the flow over the cropped-delta planform isnoteworthy for the absence of the strong outboard shockand this is attributed partly to the cropped tip andpartly to the unswept trailing edge .  a comparison is madewith results obtained during preliminary tests inwhich the wing planform closely resembled that of a truedelta .