a comparative analysis of the performance of long rangehypervelocity vehicles ..Aeggers,a.j..Bnaca tn.4046, 1957..Wa comparative analysis of the performance of long rangehypervelocity vehicles .  long-range hypervelocity vehicles are studied in terms of theirmotion in powered flight, and their motion and aerodynamic heating inunpowered flight .  powered flight isanalyzed for an idealized propulsionsystem which rather closely approachespresent-day rocket motors .unpowered flight is characterized by a returnto earth along a ballistic, skip,or glide trajectory .  only thosetrajectories are treated which yield themaximum range for a given velocity at the end of powered flight .aerodynamic heating is treated in a mannersimilar to that employed previouslyby the senior authors in studying ballistic missiles (naca tn 4047),with the exception that radiant as well as convective heat transfer isconsidered in connection with glide and skip vehicles .  the ballistic vehicle is found to be the least efficient of theseveral types studied in the sensethat it generally requires the highestvelocity at the end of powered flight in order to attain a given range .this disadvantage may be offset, however, by reducing convective heattransfer to the re-entry body throughthe artifice of increasing pressuredrag in relation to friction drag - thatis, by using a blunt body .  thusthe kinetic energy required by the vehicle at the end of powered flightmay be reduced by minimizing the mass of coolant material involved .  the glide vehicle developing lift-drag ratios in the neighborhoodof and greater than 4 is far superiorto the ballistic vehicle in abilityto convert velocity into range .  it has the disadvantage of having farmore heat convected to it,. however, it has the compensating advantagethat this heat can in the main be radiatedback to the atmosphere .consequently, the mass of coolant material may be kept relatively low .  the skip vehicle developing lift-drag ratios from about 1 to 4 isfound to be superior to comparable ballistic and glide vehicles inconverting velocity into range .  atlift-drag ratios below 1 it is found tobe about equal to comparable ballisticvehicles while at lift-drag ratios