q . app . math . 7, 1950, 381 . experiments on porous-wallcooling and flow separation control in a supersonicnozzle ..Agreen,l. and nall,k.l..Bj. ae. scs. 1959, 689..Wq . app . math . 7, 1950, 381 . experiments on porous-wallcooling and flow separation control in a supersonicnozzle .  control of flow separation by fluid injection at one divergingboundary of a two-dimensional, transparent-walled de lavalnozzle was investigated by spark schlieren photography of drynitrogen flows expanded from two stagnation temperaturesinjection conditions at the permeable boundary were varied bythe use of three grades of porous stainless steel with nominal porediameters of 10, 20, and 30 microns, through which nitrogen wasforced by coolant reservoir pressures of 25, 50, and 100 psig, inaddition to the case of no forced injection .  pressuredistribution measurements were made along the nonpermeable divergingboundary .  it was found that flow separation at expansion ratiosapproaching the optimum value for maximum thrust coefficientcould be induced at the porous wall by a local injection massvelocity of the order of a few per cent of the local main-streammass velocity .  separation at the solid boundary was notnoticeably influenced by injection at the opposite wall, and theasymmetrical separation thus effected jet deflections of up to 10degrees at the lower stagnation-pressure levels .  variation of thewall heat-transfer condition by changing the stagnationtemperature did not significantly influence separation behavior .temperature measurements at the reservoir face of the poroussection, together with use of published correlations and of therube-sin analysis for estimation of stream-side stanton numbers undernoninjection and injection conditions, respectively, permittedheat-transfer calculations which indicated that the effectivenessof the transpiration technique in controlling nozzle walltemperatures derives primarily from intimate fluid-solid contact in aporous material of high specific surface .