some low speed problems of high speed aircraft ..Aspence, a. and clean, d..Bj. royal aero. soc. v. 66, april 1962, pp 211-225 ..Wsome low speed problems of high speed aircraft .the first part of the paper deals with the low speed aerodynamics ofaircraft shapes suggested by kuchemann, at the second internationalcongress in aeronautical sciences at zurich in 1960, as suitable forachieving a required range at supersonic speeds, namely wingbodyarrangements with sweepback angles of 55degrees or 60degrees andstreamwise thickness-chord ratio of about 5 per cent suitable for lowsupersonic speed, and slender near-triangular wings with sharp leadingedges suitable for mach numbers of about 2 or more .no attention is given to /slewed/ wings, powered lift or variablegeometry .in dealing briefly with swept wings, the need for avoiding separation of flow from the leading edge is demonstrated, with the conclusion that it is desirable to use leading edge flaps with blowing or suction at theknee together with blown trailing edge flaps . wind tunnel tests aredescribed on a simplified model with these boundary layer controlmethods applied . mention is made of the possibility of adverse groundeffect on maximum lift .more attention is given to the case of slender wings because their useinvolves a new type of flow with separation from all edges . this flowand its steadiness are therefore discussed from the point of view ofthe possibility of buffeting,. the effect of plan form on staticlongitudinal stability and pitch-up is analysed,. and a short summary of available results on damping in pitch is given . large rolling momentsdue to sideslip are shown to give rise to serious problems of control,and the present state of knowledge of static lateral and directionalstability and rolling and yawing rotary derivatives is discussed .finally the effects of proximity to the ground are summarised .the second part of the paper is concerned with work aimed at clarifyingsome of the requirements for handling qualities of future aircraft . itis not so much concerned with forecasts of the dynamic behaviour ofthese future aircraft as with determining what the pilot wants .two aspects of control in the vertical plane are discussed in somedetail namely speed control and glide path holding . flight tests on anavro 707a aircraft, with artificially worsened characteristics, aredescribed, and it is shown that substantially constant performance in thepiloting task can be achieved at the expense of increased pilot effort . some tentative conclusions on desirable levels of speed stability andphugoid damping are, nevertheless, drawn .a brief review of the present status of lateral/directional handlingrequirements, using mainly american data, is also included .