a study of the effect of leading-edge modifications on the flow overa 50degree sweptback wing at transonic speeds ..Arogers, e.w e., townsend, j.e.g. and berry, c.j..Ba.r.c., r + m 3270, may 1960 ..Wa study of the effect of leading-edge modifications on the flow overa 50degree sweptback wing at transonic speeds .summary . an investigation has been made in the n.p.l. 18 in. x 14 in .tunnel of the effects of leading-edge modifications on the flow andforces on an untapered wing of 50 deg leading-edge sweep, at stream mach numbers between 0 60 and 1 20 . seven leading-edge profiles weretested, ranging from a drooped extension of 18 per cent of the chord ofthe basic sharp-nosed section to a round-nosed section with aleading-edge radius of 1 0 per cent of the basic chord .leading-edge droop was found to increase the wing drag near zero liftbut to reduce appreciably the lift-dependent drag component, except atthe highest test mach numbers . droop also increased the liftcoefficient at which leading-edge separation occurred on the upper surfaceat moderate subsonic speeds, but in addition reduced the mach number for transonic flow attachment . the appearance of the forward shock /butnot the rear shock/ is considerably delayed when the leading edge isdrooped .with the undrooped sections an increase in leading-edge radius wasaccompanied by successively earlier appearances of the forward shock,and hence the outboard shock with its attendant separation . theconditions at which the rear shock first appeared changed only slowly as thesection was changed .the variations in wing flow pattern as the leading edge is modified arediscussed and related to measured changes in the wing lift and drag .an attempt is also made to estimate the local mach numbers on some parts of the wing from the oil-flow patterns,. this material is used toassess the flow conditions appropriate to shock-induced separation .the main section of the report concludes with a tentative discussion ofthe significance of the present results to the design of swept wings .in an appendix results obtained with the wing in a sweptforwardconfiguration are briefly considered .