interaction between shock waves and boundary layers, with a note on theeffects of the interaction of the performance of supersonic intakes ..Aholder, d.w., pearcey, h.h. and gadd, g.e..Ba.r.c., c.p. 180, february 1954 ..Winteraction between shock waves and boundary layers, with a note on theeffects of the interaction of the performance of supersonic intakes .the interaction between shock waves and boundary layers has importanteffects in many problems of high-speed flow . this paper has beenwritten as a guide to the literature on the subject, and as a criticalreview of the present state of knowledge concerning both the underlyingphysical processes and the practical applications . it will be clear tothe reader that, although substantial progress has been made, ourknowledge is still far from complete and that more work both of afundamental nature and on specific applications is needed before the problemis understood sufficiently well for design purposes .part i of the paper describes experiments on comparatively simple typesof flow designed to provide fundamental information and to assist in the development of the theory . these experiments show that the interaction depends mainly on the mach and reynolds numbers and on the strength ofthe shock wave . in particular, the interaction of a shock wave with alaminar boundary layer is shown to produce much larger effects than ifthe boundary layer is turbulent . for most cases where the effects ofthe interaction are large enough to have serious practical consequencesit is found that the boundary layer separates from the surface, and thedifference between the interaction with laminar and turbulent layersarises mainly because the laminar layer separates much more readily inan adverse pressure gradient . the details of the interaction downstream of the separation point thus depend critically on the behaviour of theseparated layer, and on the conditions under which it reattaches to thesurface .many of the features found in the fundamental experiments appear also in practical applications and these are considered in parts ii and iii ofthe paper . although the emphasis hero is on the performance ofaerfoils and wings moving at high subsonic speeds, the importance of theinteraction in other examples such as at supersonic trailing edges andin supersonic intakes is also discussed briefly . the differencesbetween the interaction with laminar and turbulent boundary layers areoften a source of serious discrepancy between model experiments andfull-scale conditions . for small-scale models it is, therefore,frequently essential to make the boundary layer turbulent by artificialmeans . some of the difficulties involved in doing this, and certain ofthe more promising methods are briefly discussed . it is shown thatexperiments on models with transition fixed can be used to explain anumber of aerodynamic effects encountered in transonic flight, andconnected with the occurrence of shock-induced separation of theturbulent boundary layers . for both two-dimensional aerofoils and straight and sweptback wings, turbulent separation occurs for shocks above acertain strength which applies for both model and full-scale conditionsfull-scale conditions,. differences in magnitude would be expected ifthe pressure recovery along the separated layer between the shock andthe trailing edge is affected by reynolds number, but little information is at present available on this point .most of the repercussions of turbulent separation on the steady-motioncharacteristics of aerofoils and wings can be traced to the associatedreduction in the pressure recovery over the roar of the surface . thisis because the pressure at the trailing edge controls the inter-relation between the two surfaces /so long as the flow at the trailing edgeremains subsonic/, and in particular the relative movements of the shock waves and the extents of the local regions of supersonic flow . certain unsteady-flow characteristics such as buffeting and control surfaceseparation .some evidence is presented on the influence of section shape on theoccurrence and effects of separation, but in this, as in many otherrespects, information relevant to turbulent boundary layers is scarce .some notes on the further work which is required are given in part iv of the paper .