theoretical investigation of the ablation of a glass-typeheat protection shield of varied material propertiesat the stagnation point of a re-entering irbm ..Aadams,e.w..Bnasa tn.d564, 1961..Wtheoretical investigation of the ablation of a glass-typeheat protection shield of varied material propertiesat the stagnation point of a re-entering irbm .  the melting-type heat protection at the stagnation point of are-entering irbm is treated by employing homogeneous, opaque, andnondecomposing glass shields which do not exceed a temperature ofsome effects due to variations of the glass properties .  the ballisticre-entry vehicle has a nose diameter of 0.635 m, a ballistic factorof 3.5 x 10, a re-entry angle of 124.9 (from thevertical) at an altitude of 100 km, and a re-entry speed of 4.5 .the performance of 36 different glass shields with assumedcombinations of material properties is investigated by employing acalculation method which yields practically exact, transient solutionsfor the problem .  as a corollary, results for a certain steady flightstate are also given .  the discussions made it possible to deriveunder realistic flight conditions some thermal characteristics for theemployment of thin, or light-weight, glass shields .  investigation of these hypothetical glass shields leads to theconclusion that a low thermal conductivity and a high specific heat,and thus, a small thermal diffusivity are most desirable .  a smallthermal diffusivity yields high surface temperatures, causing a highradiative heat transfer out of the shield,. and steep temperatureprofiles normal to the surface, causing a small thermal penetration acrossthe shield with little total ablation of the shield .  results show thatfor the assumed irbm re-entry, the necessary thickness of the employedglass shields increases monotonically with thermal diffusivity which isthe only material parameter affecting this thickness .  a high viscosity level and a high emissivity constant of thesurface of the supposedly opaque shield are also desirable,. although,these two properties exert a comparatively small influence on theoverall performance when disregarding glass shields with an extremelylow viscosity level .