small bending and stretching of sandwich type shells ..Areissner,e..Bnaca tn.1832, 1949..Wsmall bending and stretching of sandwich type shells .  a theory has been developed for small bending and stretching ofsandwich-type shells .  this theory is an extension of the known theoryof homogeneous thin elastic shells .  it was found that two effects areimportant in the present problem, which have not been consideredpreviously in the theory of curved shells ..  (1) the effect oftransverse shear deformation and (2) the effect of transverse normal stressdeformation .  the first of these two effects has been known to be ofimportance in the theory of plates and beams .  the second effect wasfound to occur in a manner which is typical for shells and has nocounterpart in flat-plate theory .  the general results of this report have been applied to thesolution of problems concerning flat plates, circular rings, circularcylindrical shells, and spherical shells .  in each case numericalexamples have been given, illustrating the magnitude of the effectsof transverse shear and normal stress deformation .  the results of this investigation indicate the necessity oftaking account of transverse shear and normal stress in sandwich-typeshells, as soon as there is an order-of-magnitude difference betweenthe elastic constants of the core layer and of the face layers of thecomposite shell .  it was found that the changes due to transverseshear and normal stress deformation in the core may be so large as tobe no mere corrections to the results of the theory without transversecore flexibility .  the actual magnitude of the changes is greatly dependent on thegeometry and loading condition of the structure under considerationso that no general rules may be given which indicate for which elasticmodulus ratio the changes begin to be significant .  solutions of problems in the present theory may in general beobtained by mathematical methods which are similar to those employedin the theory of plates and shells without the effect of transverseshear and normal stress deformation included .  the present work doesnot include consideration of buckling and finite deflection effects .