a nonlinear theory of bending and buckling of thinelastic shallow spherical shells ..Akaplan,a. and fung,y.c..Bnaca tn.3212, 1954..Wa nonlinear theory of bending and buckling of thinelastic shallow spherical shells .  a shallow spherical dome subjected to lateral pressure is a structurefor which the deformation departs appreciably from the linear theory atrelatively small values of the deflection amplitude .  it is also onefor which the buckling process is characterized by a rapid decrease inthe equilibrium load once the buckling load has been surpassed .  forstructures having this type of buckling characteristics the questionarises as to whether the proper buckling criterion to apply is theclassical criterion, which considers equilibrium with respect toinfinitesimal displacements, or the finite-displacement /energycriterion/ proposed by tsien .  in this paper the problem of the finite displacement and bucklingof a shallow spherical dome is investigated both theoretically andexperimentally .  in the theoretical approach the nonlinear equationsare converted into a sequence of linear equations by expanding all ofthe variables in powers of the center deflection and then equating thecoefficients of equal powers .  the basic parameter for the shallow domeis proportional to the ratio of the central height of the dome h to itsthickness t .  for small values of this ratio the expansions convergerapidly and enough terms are computed to determine the buckling loadaccording to the classical criterion .  for higher values of h t,convergence deteriorates rapidly and it was not possible to determine thebuckling load with the number of terms which were computed .  howevereven for these higher values of h t the deflection shapes are determinedfor deflection amplitudes below the amplitude at which buckling occurs .these deflection shapes are characterized by their rapid change as h tincreases and by the fact that, over most of the range of h t studied,the maximum deflection does not occur at the center of the dome .  experimental results seem to indicate that the classical criterionof buckling is applicable to very shallow spherical domes for which thetheoretical calculation was made .  a transition to energy criterion forhigher domes is also indicated .