an investigation of separated flows, part i: the pressurefield ..Acharwat,a.f..Bj. ae. scs. 28, 1961, 457..Wan investigation of separated flows, part i: the pressurefield .  the present article describes an investigation of several types ofseparated regions such as blunt-base wakes and cavities formedin cutouts in the boundaries and ahead of or behind twodimensional steps in supersonic (mach numbers 2 to 4) andsubsonic flow .  the conditions for the existence, the geometry,and the pressure field are described in this paper .  a second article (to be published) will describe investigations ofthe internal flow and the heat transfer across such separatedregions .  it is found that there is a maximum (critical) ratio of the lengthof the separated free-shear layer to the depth of the depressionin the boundary beyond which the cavity collapses, leavingmutually independent separated regions at each protrusion .this critical length changes greatly upon laminar-turbulenttransition in the oncoming boundary layer,. in either laminar orturbulent flow it is approximately independent of mach andreynolds numbers .  a semiempirical correlation predicting theconditions under which the flow will span a depression of arbitrarydepth is proposed .  detailed pressure distributions along the boundaries of acavity (in turbulent flow) are presented as a function of the ratioof the cavity length to the critical length, which is found to bethe pertinent similarity parameter .  for short notchesthe impact pressure due to the reversal of the inner portionof the shear layer at recompression tends to thicken the shearlayer and a type of boundary layer-free stream interactiongoverns the pressure field .  the pressure in the cavity is nearlyconstant and can be higher than free-stream .  in long notchesthe shear layer bends inward at separation andcurves back gradually ahead of the recompression point .  thefloor-pressure variation is pronounced and the recovery pressureat reattachment is small .  the variation of the drag coefficientwith mach number reflects the change from one to the othermechanism of recompression .  detailed surveys of the mach-number distributions in ablunt-body wake and the mixing region behind its throat, aswell as in the shear layer spanning a cutout in a wall, are presentedand analyzed .  it is found that, in general, the assumptions ofthe simple supersonic-wake models which rely on a principle ofsteady flow with mass conservation in the cavity are not adequatefor cavities in which there is recompression against a boundary .  results showing the influence of the thickness of the initialboundary layer (in the range of 0.3 to 3 times the notch depth)and of the geometry of the notch are also presented .