transition studies and skin friction measurements onan insulated flat plate at a mach number of 5.8 ..Akorkegi,r.h..Bj. ae. scs. 23, 1956, 97..Wtransition studies and skin friction measurements onan insulated flat plate at a mach number of 5.8 .  an investigation of transition and skin friction on an insulatedflat plate, 5 by 26 in., was made in the galcit 5 by 5 in.hypersonic wind tunnel at a nominal mach number of 5.8 .  the phosphorescent lacquer technique was used for transitiondetection and was found to be in good agreement with total-headrake measurements along the plate surface and pitot boundary-layer surveys .  it was found that the boundary layer waslaminar at reynolds numbers of at least 5 x 10 .  transversecontamination caused by the turbulent boundary layer on thetunnel sidewall originated far downstream of the flat plate leadingedge at reynolds numbers of 1.5 to 2 x 10, and spread at auniform angle of 5 compared to 9 degree in low-speed flow .  the effect of two-dimensional and local disturbances wasinvestigated .  the technique of air injection into the boundarylayer as a means of hastening transition was extensively used .although the onset of transition occurred at reynolds numbersas low as 10, a fully developed turbulent boundary layer wasnot obtained at reynolds numbers much below 2 x 10regardless of the amount of air injected .  a qualitative discussion of these results is given with emphasison the possibility of a greater stability of the laminar boundarylayer in hypersonic flow than at lower speeds .  direct skin-friction measurements were made by means of thefloating element technique, over a range of reynolds numbersverified as being laminar over the complete range .  with airinjection, turbulent shear was obtained only for reynoldsnumbers greater than 2 x 10, this value being in good agreement withearlier results of this investigation .  the turbulent skin-frictioncoefficient was found to be approximately 0.40 of that forincompressible flow for a constant value of r, and 0.46 for an effectivereynolds number between 5 and 6 x 10 .