a method of calculating the short period longitudinalstability derivatives of a wing in linearised unsteadycompressible flow ..Amangler,k.w..Brae r. aero.2468..Wa method of calculating the short period longitudinalstability derivatives of a wing in linearised unsteadycompressible flow .  a method is developed for thecalculation of the pressuredistribution and the aerodynamic forces andmoments on a wing performing harmonicpitching and heaving oscillations .the calculation is based on theassumption of inviscid potential flowwithout shock waves and isrestricted to small incidence, so that thelinearized theory is valid .  in contrast to other work in thefield the theory applies to allmach numbers .  it is restricted to smallvalues of the reduced frequencyand should be valid for the usual rangeof short periods occurring atpresent in flight .  the formal solutionyields two integral equations forthe parts of the load, which are in phaseand go out of phase with theoscillation,. these are of the same formas the corresponding equationin steady flow .  the way is thus opened for solutionsover the whole mach numberrange at small frequencies, if thecorresponding steady solutions canbe found .  the calculation is in facteasiest for m = 1 and has beendone here for delta-wings to supplementa previous supersonic calculation,made on different frequency assumptions,which broke down near m = 1 .it appears from the two sets of resultsthat the short period oscillationwill be unstable near m = 1, if the apexangle of the delta wing isgreater than about 60 .  this confirms anow generally recognised trend .  such results near m = 1 must ofcourse be invalidated to anunknown extent by thickness viscosity andshock waves at their maximumeffect .  nevertheless it is unlikely thatthese factors will removethe critical nature of the transonic dampingas calculated by this method .with all its obvious limitations this method,when extended to otherplanforms, should provide a useful tool instudying the effect ofgeometrical parameters on the stability ofan aircraft at transonicspeeds .