investigation of normal force distributions and wakevortex characteristics of bodies of revolution at supersonicspeeds ..Amello,j.f..Bj. ae. scs. 1959, 155..Winvestigation of normal force distributions and wakevortex characteristics of bodies of revolution at supersonicspeeds .  the supersonic aerodynamic characteristics of inclined bodiesof revolution at high angles of attack have been investigated inorder to provide a more basic understanding of the body vortexwake flow and its relation to the problem of body-winginterference .  the results of wind-tunnel tests, whereby the normalforce, pitching moment, normal force distributions, and the localflow properties in the vicinity of the body were determined, arediscussed and analyzed .  comparisons of experimental normal force coefficient andcenter of pressure data with values calculated in accordance withtheories which include methods for estimating the effects ofviscosity show that the accuracy of these estimates is stronglydependent on the body fineness ratio and the angle of attack .further comparisons of the distributions of theoretical andexperimentally derived cross-flow drag coefficients clearly show that,in general, the disagreement between experiment and existingtheories is due to the inadequate prediction of the magnitude anddistribution of the forces resulting from flow separation .  the circulation strengths of the concentrated vortices and thecirculation strengths of the vortex feeding sheets in the bodyvortex wake are determined by closed-contour velocity-perimeterintegrations for paths enclosing the vortex or the feeding sheet .the values of vortex strength calculated in this manner are inclose agreement with the values predicted by vortex strengthformulas written for a simple theoretical model for which it isassumed that the cross-flow in any plane along the cylindricalportion of the body is represented by the steady incompressiblepotential flow about a cylinder, two symmetrical vortices ofequal strength, and the attendant image vortices .  however,in computing these strengths it is necessary to use the vortexlocations and the viscous normal force distributions determinedfrom experiment .  the experimentally determined values of vortex strength are,in turn, used to calculate--by means of the aforementionedincompressible cross-flow potential--the local flow inclinationangles which are in good agreement with the measured values,except in the vortex core, in the vicinity of the feeding sheet,and in regions for which transonic cross-flow velocities areexpected .  a consideration of these various regions with simplemethods which account for the observed phenomena leads tosubstantial improvement in the agreement between theory andexperiment .  it is indicated that the complete vortex wake flow may beadequately predicted for a body of revolution (for conditionsrepresented by the theoretical flow model), provided that thedistribution of the viscous normal force and the vortex locations areaccurately known .