a new theory for the buckling of thin cylinders underaxial compression and bending ..Adonnell,l.h..Basme trans. 56, 1934, 795..Wa new theory for the buckling of thin cylinders underaxial compression and bending .  the results of experiments on axial loading of cylindricalshells (thin enough to buckle below the elastic limit andtoo short to buckle as euler columns) are not in goodagreement with previous theories, which have been based on theassumptions of perfect initial shape and infinitesimaldeflections .  experimental failure stresses range from 0.6to 0.15 of the theoretical .  the discrepancy is apparentlyconsiderably greater for brass and mild-steel specimensthan for duralumin and increases with the radius-thickness ratio .  there is an equally great discrepancy betweenobserved and predicted shapes of buckling deflections .  in this paper an approximate large-deflection theory isdeveloped, which permits initial eccentricities ordeviations from cylindrical shape to be considered .  trueinstability is, of course, impossible under such conditions,.the stress distribution is no longer uniform, and it isassumed that final failure takes place when the maximumstress reaches the yield point .  the effect of initialeccentricities and of large deflections is much greater than forthe case of simple struts .  measurements of initialeccentricities in actual cylinders have not been made,.however, it is shown that most of these discrepancies can beexplained if the initial deviations from cylindrical form areassumed to be resolved into a double harmonic series, andif certain reasonable assumptions are made as to themagnitudes of these components of the deviations .  withthese assumptions the failing stress is found to be afunction of the yield point as well as of the modulus ofelasticity and the radius-thickness ratio .  on the basis of thisa tentative design formula (5) is proposel, which involvesrelations suggested by the theory but is based onexperimental data .  it is shown that similar discrepancies betweenexperiments and previous theories on the buckling of thincylinders in pure bending can be reasonably explained on thesame basis, and that the maximum bending stress canbe taken as about 1.4 times the values given by equationbuckling problems can probably be explained by similarconsiderations, and it is hoped that this discussion mayhelp to open a new field in the study of buckling problems .the large-deflection theory developed in the paper shouldbe useful in exploring this field, and may be used in otherapplications as well .  the paper presents the results of about a hundred newtests of thin cylinders in axial compression and bending,which, together with numerous tests by lundquist, formthe experimental evidence for the conclusions arrived at .