the transverse curvature effect in compressible axiallysymmetric laminar boundary layer flow ..Aprobstein,r.f. and elliott,d..Bj. ae.scs. 28, 1956, 206..Wthe transverse curvature effect in compressible axiallysymmetric laminar boundary layer flow .  the viscous transverse curvature effect in compressible axiallysymmetric laminar boundary-layer flow has been investigated,and it is found that the effect is characterized by the parameterwhich is essentially the ratio of the boundary-layer thicknessto body radius .  it is shown that the busemann and croccointegrals of the two-dimensional energy equation for arestill valid for axially symmetric flow in which the transversecurvature effects are considered .  by a generalization ofmangler's transformation it is then shown that the boundary-layerequations are reducible to an almost two-dimensional form,making the analysis simpler for two asymptotic flow regionscharacterized by and less than or of the order of unity .it is with the latter region that the present paper is primarilyconcerned, and for this case it is shown that the additional termin the momentum and energy equations, which differentiates themfrom the two-dimensional form, behaves like an externalfavorable pressure gradient .  except for certain special cases it is necessary to obtain theof the order of unity by means of asymptotic expansions inascending powers of a parameter that is small compared to unitybut proportional to .  it is shown how the asymptoticsolutions can be found for (1) the velocity and temperaturedistributions for the compressible zero pressure gradient case when thebody shapes are given by and and (2) thevelocity distribution for incompressible flow with an externalvelocity of the form past a body given by .  thezeroth approximation is the mangler result .  for the cases of alinear external velocity distribution, similar profiles can be foundfor all values of .  more generally it is shown that similarprofiles exist if the exponents n and m satisfy the condition that .here, similar is used in the restricted meaningthat the distributions are derivable from ordinary differentialequations .  in the case of the cone and cylinder with zero pressure gradientwhere the equations have been numerically integrated for,the first-order correction to the mangler formulation shows thatthe effect on both the skin-friction coefficient and heat-transferrate can become appreciable in the range where is less thanor of the order of unity .  at a constant, the effects areincreased in magnitude when either the ratio of wall to free-streamtemperature, or mach number, is increased .  also, all otherconditions being equal, for the same value of the skin-frictioncoefficient and heat-transfer increase on the cylinder is greaterthan that on the cone .  for flows with pressure gradient, the transverse curvature termbehaves again like a favorable pressure gradient and tends todelay both separation and transition when compared with axiallysymmetric flows in which the transverse curvature effect isneglected .