exploratory investigation of the effect of a forwardfacing jet on the bow shock of a blunt body in a machnumber 6 free stream ..Aromeo,d.j. and sterrett,j.r..Bnasa tn.d1605, 1963..Wexploratory investigation of the effect of a forwardfacing jet on the bow shock of a blunt body in a machnumber 6 free stream .  the effect of a forward-facing jet onthe bow shock of a blunt body in amach 6 free stream was investigatedexperimentally .  the models tested hadforward-facing jets using air and helium exhaustingat mach numbers from 1 to 10.3 andwere run through a range of the ratio of jettotal pressure to free-stream totalpressure of 0.03 (jet off) to 2.5 .  the ratioof body diameter to jet-exitdiameter varied from 1.12 to 55.6 and the angleof attack was varied from 0 to 35 .  the experimental results show that themain-stream shock can be affected bythe jet in two significantly different ways .one way is simply to move the strongshock away from the body without altering itsshape .  the second and perhaps moreinteresting case occurs when the jet causes alarge displacement of the main shockand considerably changes its shape .  it wasfound that the ratio of jet totalpressure to free-stream total pressure necessaryto obtain the large displacementsof the main-stream shock depended on the ratioof body diameter to jet-exitdiameter and also on the jet-exit mach number .  themaximum amount the shock could bedisplaced in percent of body diameter was seento increase with increasingjet-exit mach number and also with decreasing ratioof body diameter to jet-exitdiameter .  for the models that were investigatedthrough an angle-of-attack range, thedisplacement became very unsteady and fell offsharply as the angle of attack wasincreased .  simplified theoretical considerations appliedto the shock-displacementphenomena provide a possible explanation for thetwo different types ofmain-stream shock displacement .  theoretical curvesshow the regions where these typesof displacement would occur for different exitmach numbers and pressure ratiosfor a forward-facing jet in a mach 6 stream .