contributions to the theory of heat transfer througha laminar boundary layer ..Am. j. lighthill.Bdepartment of mathematics, university of manchestercommunicated by s. goldstein, f.r.s..Wcontributions to the theory of heat transfer througha laminar boundary layer .an approximation to the heat transfer rate across a laminarincompressible boundary layer, for arbitrary distribution ofmain stream velocity and of wall temperature, is obtained byusing the energy equation in von mises's form, and approximating thecoefficients in a manner which is most closely correct near thesurface .  the heat transfer rate to a portion of surface of length lbreadth is given aswhere k is the thermal conductivity of the fluid, o its prandtl number,p its density, u its viscosity, r(x) is the skin friction,and t(x) the excess of wall temperature over main stream temperature .a critical appraisement of the formula indicates that it should be veryaccurate for large, but that for of order 0.7 (for most gases) theconstant should be replaced by 0.73, when the error should not exceedthis yields a formula for nusselt number in terms of the reynolds numberr and the mean square root of the skin friction coefficient c, in thecase of uniform wall temperature .however, for the boundary layer with uniform main stream, theoriginal formula is accurate to within 3 percent even for .  byknown transformations an expression is deducted for heattransfer to a surface, with arbitrary temperature distributionalong it, and with a uniform stream outside it at arbitrarymach number (equation (42)) .  from this the temperature distributionalong such a surface is deduced in the case (of importance at high machnumbers) when heat transfer to it is balanced entirely by radiationfrom it .  this calculation, which includes the solution of a non-linearintegral equation, gives higher temperatures near the nose,and lower ones farther back (figure 2), than are found from a theorywhich assumes the wall temperature uniform and averages the heattransfer balance .  this effect will be considerably mitigatedfor bodies of high thermal conductivity., the author is notin a position to say whether or not it will be appreciable formetal projectiles .  but for stony meteorites at a certain stageof their flight through the atmosphere it indicates thatmelting at the nose and re-solidification farther back may occur, forwhich the shape and constitution of a few of them affords evidence .an appendix shows how the method for approximating and solvingvon mises's equation could be used to determine the skin frictionas well as heat transfer rate, but this line seems to have no advantageover established approximate methods .