the fundamentals of the statistical theory of turbulence ..Ath. von karman.Bcalifornia institute of technology.Wthe fundamentals of the statistical theory of turbulence .statistical theory in general considers mean values of certainquantities .  in the case of the turbulent motion one is interested in meanvalues of velocities and of their derivatives, and in mean values ofsquares and products of velocities and their derivatives .  it was o.reynolds who first expressed the so-called apparent or turbulentstresses by the mean values of the products of the velocity components .  thedifferent theories suggested so far have as their common objective theestablishment of relations between certain mean values, e.g. between theturbulent shear stresses given by the mean products of velocityfluctuations and the derivatives of the mean velocities, i.e. the measured meanvelocity gradients .  in this sort of investigations the conception ofthe /correlation/ is of paramount importance .  the late a. friedmantried to introduce the correlations as unknown variables in thehydrodynamic equations., however, he could not carry his investigations topractical results, i.e., to results which can be compared with theexperimental evidence .  recently, g. i. taylor had success in hisanalysis of /isotropic/ turbulence by means of correlation calculations, andwas able to discuss, theoretically, the problem of the decay ofturbulence in a windstream behind a turbulence producing device .  his theoryraised considerable interest because it is concerned with the importantproblem of wind-tunnel turbulence and its results could be compareddirectly with experimental work done by dryden in this country and byfage, townend and simmons in england .the present paper is concerned with two fundamental problems.. withuniform isotropic turbulence and with the turbulent friction in aparallel stream .  first, the general theory of isotropic turbulence isdeveloped .  this general theory includes taylor's consideration as aspecial case .  however, it